




Dorothy and the Wizard in Oz


  A Faithful Record of Their Amazing Adventures
    in an Underground World; and How with the
     Aid of Their Friends Zeb Hugson, Eureka
       the Kitten, and Jim the Cab-Horse,
            They Finally Reached the
                Wonderful Land
                    of Oz





   --To My Readers--
   1.  The Earthquake
   2.  The Glass City
   3.  The Arrival of the Wizard
   4.  The Vegetable Kingdom
   5.  Dorothy Picks the Princess
   6.  The Mangaboos Prove Dangerous
   7.  Into the Black Pit and Out Again
   8.  The Valley of Voices
   9.  They Fight the Invisible Bears
  10.  The Braided Man of Pyramid Mountain
  11.  They Meet the Wooden Gargoyles
  12.  A Wonderful Escape
  13.  The Den of the Dragonettes
  14.  Ozma Uses the Magic Belt
  15.  Old Friends are Reunited
  16.  Jim, the Cab-Horse
  17.  The Nine Tiny Piglets
  18.  The Trial of Eureka, the Kitten
  19.  The Wizard Performs Another Trick
  20.  Zeb Returns to the Ranch




To My Readers


It's no use; no use at all.  The children won't let me stop telling
tales of the Land of Oz.  I know lots of other stories, and I hope to
tell them, some time or another; but just now my loving tyrants won't
allow me.  They cry: "Oz--Oz! more about Oz, Mr. Baum!" and what can I
do but obey their commands?

This is Our Book--mine and the children's.  For they have flooded me
with thousands of suggestions in regard to it, and I have honestly
tried to adopt as many of these suggestions as could be fitted into one
story.

After the wonderful success of "Ozma of Oz" it is evident that Dorothy
has become a firm fixture in these Oz stories.  The little ones all
love Dorothy, and as one of my small friends aptly states: "It isn't a
real Oz story without her."  So here she is again, as sweet and gentle
and innocent as ever, I hope, and the heroine of another strange
adventure.

There were many requests from my little correspondents for "more about
the Wizard."  It seems the jolly old fellow made hosts of friends in
the first Oz book, in spite of the fact that he frankly acknowledged
himself "a humbug."  The children had heard how he mounted into the sky
in a balloon and they were all waiting for him to come down again.  So
what could I do but tell "what happened to the Wizard afterward"?  You
will find him in these pages, just the same humbug Wizard as before.

There was one thing the children demanded which I found it impossible
to do in this present book: they bade me introduce Toto, Dorothy's
little black dog, who has many friends among my readers.  But you will
see, when you begin to read the story, that Toto was in Kansas while
Dorothy was in California, and so she had to start on her adventure
without him.  In this book Dorothy had to take her kitten with her
instead of her dog; but in the next Oz book, if I am permitted to write
one, I intend to tell a good deal about Toto's further history.

Princess Ozma, whom I love as much as my readers do, is again
introduced in this story, and so are several of our old friends of Oz.
You will also become acquainted with Jim the Cab-Horse, the Nine Tiny
Piglets, and Eureka, the Kitten.  I am sorry the kitten was not as well
behaved as she ought to have been; but perhaps she wasn't brought up
properly.  Dorothy found her, you see, and who her parents were nobody
knows.

I believe, my dears, that I am the proudest story-teller that ever
lived.  Many a time tears of pride and joy have stood in my eyes while
I read the tender, loving, appealing letters that came to me in almost
every mail from my little readers.  To have pleased you, to have
interested you, to have won your friendship, and perhaps your love,
through my stories, is to my mind as great an achievement as to become
President of the United States.  Indeed, I would much rather be your
story-teller, under these conditions, than to be the President.  So you
have helped me to fulfill my life's ambition, and I am more grateful to
you, my dears, than I can express in words.

I try to answer every letter of my young correspondents; yet sometimes
there are so many letters that a little time must pass before you get
your answer.  But be patient, friends, for the answer will surely come,
and by writing to me you more than repay me for the pleasant task of
preparing these books.  Besides, I am proud to acknowledge that the
books are partly yours, for your suggestions often guide me in telling
the stories, and I am sure they would not be half so good without your
clever and thoughtful assistance.

L. FRANK BAUM

Coronado, 1908.




1.  The Earthquake


The train from 'Frisco was very late.  It should have arrived at
Hugson's Siding at midnight, but it was already five o'clock and the
gray dawn was breaking in the east when the little train slowly rumbled
up to the open shed that served for the station-house.  As it came to a
stop the conductor called out in a loud voice:

"Hugson's Siding!"

At once a little girl rose from her seat and walked to the door of the
car, carrying a wicker suit-case in one hand and a round bird-cage
covered up with newspapers in the other, while a parasol was tucked
under her arm.  The conductor helped her off the car and then the
engineer started his train again, so that it puffed and groaned and
moved slowly away up the track.  The reason he was so late was because
all through the night there were times when the solid earth shook and
trembled under him, and the engineer was afraid that at any moment the
rails might spread apart and an accident happen to his passengers.  So
he moved the cars slowly and with caution.

The little girl stood still to watch until the train had disappeared
around a curve; then she turned to see where she was.

The shed at Hugson's Siding was bare save for an old wooden bench, and
did not look very inviting.  As she peered through the soft gray light
not a house of any sort was visible near the station, nor was any
person in sight; but after a while the child discovered a horse and
buggy standing near a group of trees a short distance away.  She walked
toward it and found the horse tied to a tree and standing motionless,
with its head hanging down almost to the ground.  It was a big horse,
tall and bony, with long legs and large knees and feet.  She could
count his ribs easily where they showed through the skin of his body,
and his head was long and seemed altogether too big for him, as if it
did not fit.  His tail was short and scraggly, and his harness had been
broken in many places and fastened together again with cords and bits
of wire.  The buggy seemed almost new, for it had a shiny top and side
curtains.  Getting around in front, so that she could look inside, the
girl saw a boy curled up on the seat, fast asleep.

She set down the bird-cage and poked the boy with her parasol.
Presently he woke up, rose to a sitting position and rubbed his eyes
briskly.

"Hello!" he said, seeing her, "are you Dorothy Gale?"

"Yes," she answered, looking gravely at his tousled hair and blinking
gray eyes.  "Have you come to take me to Hugson's Ranch?"

"Of course," he answered.  "Train in?"

"I couldn't be here if it wasn't," she said.

He laughed at that, and his laugh was merry and frank.  Jumping out of
the buggy he put Dorothy's suit-case under the seat and her bird-cage
on the floor in front.

"Canary-birds?" he asked.

"Oh no; it's just Eureka, my kitten.  I thought that was the best way
to carry her."

The boy nodded.

"Eureka's a funny name for a cat," he remarked.

"I named my kitten that because I found it," she explained.  "Uncle
Henry says 'Eureka' means 'I have found it.'"

"All right; hop in."

She climbed into the buggy and he followed her.  Then the boy picked up
the reins, shook them, and said "Gid-dap!"

The horse did not stir.  Dorothy thought he just wiggled one of his
drooping ears, but that was all.

"Gid-dap!" called the boy, again.

The horse stood still.

"Perhaps," said Dorothy, "if you untied him, he would go."

The boy laughed cheerfully and jumped out.

"Guess I'm half asleep yet," he said, untying the horse.  "But Jim
knows his business all right--don't you, Jim?" patting the long nose of
the animal.

Then he got into the buggy again and took the reins, and the horse at
once backed away from the tree, turned slowly around, and began to trot
down the sandy road which was just visible in the dim light.

"Thought that train would never come," observed the boy.  "I've waited
at that station for five hours."

"We had a lot of earthquakes," said Dorothy.  "Didn't you feel the
ground shake?"

"Yes; but we're used to such things in California," he replied.  "They
don't scare us much."

"The conductor said it was the worst quake he ever knew."

"Did he?  Then it must have happened while I was asleep," he said
thoughtfully.

"How is Uncle Henry?" she enquired, after a pause during which the
horse continued to trot with long, regular strides.

"He's pretty well.  He and Uncle Hugson have been having a fine visit."

"Is Mr. Hugson your uncle?" she asked.

"Yes.  Uncle Bill Hugson married your Uncle Henry's wife's sister; so
we must be second cousins," said the boy, in an amused tone.  "I work
for Uncle Bill on his ranch, and he pays me six dollars a month and my
board."

"Isn't that a great deal?" she asked, doubtfully.

"Why, it's a great deal for Uncle Hugson, but not for me.  I'm a
splendid worker.  I work as well as I sleep," he added, with a laugh.

"What is your name?" said Dorothy, thinking she liked the boy's manner
and the cheery tone of his voice.

"Not a very pretty one," he answered, as if a little ashamed.  "My
whole name is Zebediah; but folks just call me 'Zeb.'  You've been to
Australia, haven't you?"

"Yes; with Uncle Henry," she answered.  "We got to San Francisco a week
ago, and Uncle Henry went right on to Hugson's Ranch for a visit while
I stayed a few days in the city with some friends we had met."

"How long will you be with us?" he asked.

"Only a day.  Tomorrow Uncle Henry and I must start back for Kansas.
We've been away for a long time, you know, and so we're anxious to get
home again."

The boy flicked the big, boney horse with his whip and looked
thoughtful.  Then he started to say something to his little companion,
but before he could speak the buggy began to sway dangerously from side
to side and the earth seemed to rise up before them.  Next minute there
was a roar and a sharp crash, and at her side Dorothy saw the ground
open in a wide crack and then come together again.

"Goodness!" she cried, grasping the iron rail of the seat.  "What was
that?"

"That was an awful big quake," replied Zeb, with a white face.  "It
almost got us that time, Dorothy."

The horse had stopped short, and stood firm as a rock.  Zeb shook the
reins and urged him to go, but Jim was stubborn.  Then the boy cracked
his whip and touched the animal's flanks with it, and after a low moan
of protest Jim stepped slowly along the road.

Neither the boy nor the girl spoke again for some minutes.  There was a
breath of danger in the very air, and every few moments the earth would
shake violently.  Jim's ears were standing erect upon his head and
every muscle of his big body was tense as he trotted toward home.  He
was not going very fast, but on his flanks specks of foam began to
appear and at times he would tremble like a leaf.

The sky had grown darker again and the wind made queer sobbing sounds
as it swept over the valley.

Suddenly there was a rending, tearing sound, and the earth split into
another great crack just beneath the spot where the horse was standing.
With a wild neigh of terror the animal fell bodily into the pit,
drawing the buggy and its occupants after him.

Dorothy grabbed fast hold of the buggy top and the boy did the same.
The sudden rush into space confused them so that they could not think.

Blackness engulfed them on every side, and in breathless silence they
waited for the fall to end and crush them against jagged rocks or for
the earth to close in on them again and bury them forever in its
dreadful depths.

The horrible sensation of falling, the darkness and the terrifying
noises, proved more than Dorothy could endure and for a few moments the
little girl lost consciousness.  Zeb, being a boy, did not faint, but
he was badly frightened, and clung to the buggy seat with a tight grip,
expecting every moment would be his last.




2.  The Glass City


When Dorothy recovered her senses they were still falling, but not so
fast.  The top of the buggy caught the air like a parachute or an
umbrella filled with wind, and held them back so that they floated
downward with a gentle motion that was not so very disagreeable to
bear.  The worst thing was their terror of reaching the bottom of this
great crack in the earth, and the natural fear that sudden death was
about to overtake them at any moment.  Crash after crash echoed far
above their heads, as the earth came together where it had split, and
stones and chunks of clay rattled around them on every side.  These
they could not see, but they could feel them pelting the buggy top, and
Jim screamed almost like a human being when a stone overtook him and
struck his boney body.  They did not really hurt the poor horse,
because everything was falling together; only the stones and rubbish
fell faster than the horse and buggy, which were held back by the
pressure of the air, so that the terrified animal was actually more
frightened than he was injured.

How long this state of things continued Dorothy could not even guess,
she was so greatly bewildered.  But bye and bye, as she stared ahead
into the black chasm with a beating heart, she began to dimly see the
form of the horse Jim--his head up in the air, his ears erect and his
long legs sprawling in every direction as he tumbled through space.
Also, turning her head, she found that she could see the boy beside
her, who had until now remained as still and silent as she herself.

Dorothy sighed and commenced to breathe easier.  She began to realize
that death was not in store for her, after all, but that she had merely
started upon another adventure, which promised to be just as queer and
unusual as were those she had before encountered.

With this thought in mind the girl took heart and leaned her head over
the side of the buggy to see where the strange light was coming from.
Far below her she found six great glowing balls suspended in the air.
The central and largest one was white, and reminded her of the sun.
Around it were arranged, like the five points of a star, the other five
brilliant balls; one being rose colored, one violet, one yellow, one
blue and one orange.  This splendid group of colored suns sent rays
darting in every direction, and as the horse and buggy--with Dorothy
and Zeb--sank steadily downward and came nearer to the lights, the rays
began to take on all the delicate tintings of a rainbow, growing more
and more distinct every moment until all the space was brilliantly
illuminated.

Dorothy was too dazed to say much, but she watched one of Jim's big
ears turn to violet and the other to rose, and wondered that his tail
should be yellow and his body striped with blue and orange like the
stripes of a zebra.  Then she looked at Zeb, whose face was blue and
whose hair was pink, and gave a little laugh that sounded a bit nervous.

"Isn't it funny?" she said.

The boy was startled and his eyes were big.  Dorothy had a green streak
through the center of her face where the blue and yellow lights came
together, and her appearance seemed to add to his fright.

"I--I don't s-s-see any-thing funny--'bout it!" he stammered.

Just then the buggy tipped slowly over upon its side, the body of the
horse tipping also.  But they continued to fall, all together, and the
boy and girl had no difficulty in remaining upon the seat, just as they
were before.  Then they turned bottom side up, and continued to roll
slowly over until they were right side up again.  During this time Jim
struggled frantically, all his legs kicking the air; but on finding
himself in his former position the horse said, in a relieved tone of
voice:

"Well, that's better!"

Dorothy and Zeb looked at one another in wonder.

"Can your horse talk?" she asked.

"Never knew him to, before," replied the boy.

"Those were the first words I ever said," called out the horse, who had
overheard them, "and I can't explain why I happened to speak then.
This is a nice scrape you've got me into, isn't it?"

"As for that, we are in the same scrape ourselves," answered Dorothy,
cheerfully.  "But never mind; something will happen pretty soon."

"Of course," growled the horse, "and then we shall be sorry it
happened."

Zeb gave a shiver.  All this was so terrible and unreal that he could
not understand it at all, and so had good reason to be afraid.

Swiftly they drew near to the flaming colored suns, and passed close
beside them.  The light was then so bright that it dazzled their eyes,
and they covered their faces with their hands to escape being blinded.
There was no heat in the colored suns, however, and after they had
passed below them the top of the buggy shut out many of the piercing
rays so that the boy and girl could open their eyes again.

"We've got to come to the bottom some time," remarked Zeb, with a deep
sigh.  "We can't keep falling forever, you know."

"Of course not," said Dorothy.  "We are somewhere in the middle of the
earth, and the chances are we'll reach the other side of it before
long.  But it's a big hollow, isn't it?"

"Awful big!" answered the boy.

"We're coming to something now," announced the horse.

At this they both put their heads over the side of the buggy and looked
down.  Yes; there was land below them; and not so very far away,
either.  But they were floating very, very slowly--so slowly that it
could no longer be called a fall--and the children had ample time to
take heart and look about them.

They saw a landscape with mountains and plains, lakes and rivers, very
like those upon the earth's surface; but all the scene was splendidly
colored by the variegated lights from the six suns.  Here and there
were groups of houses that seemed made of clear glass, because they
sparkled so brightly.

"I'm sure we are in no danger," said Dorothy, in a sober voice.  "We
are falling so slowly that we can't be dashed to pieces when we land,
and this country that we are coming to seems quite pretty."

"We'll never get home again, though!" declared Zeb, with a groan.

"Oh, I'm not so sure of that," replied the girl.  "But don't let us
worry over such things, Zeb; we can't help ourselves just now, you
know, and I've always been told it's foolish to borrow trouble."

The boy became silent, having no reply to so sensible a speech, and
soon both were fully occupied in staring at the strange scenes spread
out below them.  They seemed to be falling right into the middle of a
big city which had many tall buildings with glass domes and
sharp-pointed spires.  These spires were like great spear-points, and
if they tumbled upon one of them they were likely to suffer serious
injury.

Jim the horse had seen these spires, also, and his ears stood straight
up with fear, while Dorothy and Zeb held their breaths in suspense.
But no; they floated gently down upon a broad, flat roof, and came to a
stop at last.

When Jim felt something firm under his feet the poor beast's legs
trembled so much that he could hardly stand; but Zeb at once leaped out
of the buggy to the roof, and he was so awkward and hasty that he
kicked over Dorothy's bird-cage, which rolled out upon the roof so that
the bottom came off.  At once a pink kitten crept out of the upset
cage, sat down upon the glass roof, and yawned and blinked its round
eyes.

"Oh," said Dorothy.  "There's Eureka."

"First time I ever saw a pink cat," said Zeb.

"Eureka isn't pink; she's white.  It's this queer light that gives her
that color."

"Where's my milk?" asked the kitten, looking up into Dorothy's face.
"I'm 'most starved to death."

"Oh, Eureka!  Can you talk?"

"Talk!  Am I talking?  Good gracious, I believe I am.  Isn't it funny?"
asked the kitten.

"It's all wrong," said Zeb, gravely.  "Animals ought not to talk.  But
even old Jim has been saying things since we had our accident."

"I can't see that it's wrong," remarked Jim, in his gruff tones.  "At
least, it isn't as wrong as some other things.  What's going to become
of us now?"

"I don't know," answered the boy, looking around him curiously.

The houses of the city were all made of glass, so clear and transparent
that one could look through the walls as easily as through a window.
Dorothy saw, underneath the roof on which she stood, several rooms used
for rest chambers, and even thought she could make out a number of
queer forms huddled into the corners of these rooms.

The roof beside them had a great hole smashed through it, and pieces of
glass were lying scattered in every direction.  A nearby steeple had
been broken off short and the fragments lay heaped beside it.  Other
buildings were cracked in places or had corners chipped off from them;
but they must have been very beautiful before these accidents had
happened to mar their perfection.  The rainbow tints from the colored
suns fell upon the glass city softly and gave to the buildings many
delicate, shifting hues which were very pretty to see.

But not a sound had broken the stillness since the strangers had
arrived, except that of their own voices.  They began to wonder if
there were no people to inhabit this magnificent city of the inner
world.

Suddenly a man appeared through a hole in the roof next to the one they
were on and stepped into plain view.  He was not a very large man, but
was well formed and had a beautiful face--calm and serene as the face
of a fine portrait.  His clothing fitted his form snugly and was
gorgeously colored in brilliant shades of green, which varied as the
sunbeams touched them but was not wholly influenced by the solar rays.

The man had taken a step or two across the glass roof before he noticed
the presence of the strangers; but then he stopped abruptly.  There was
no expression of either fear or surprise upon his tranquil face, yet he
must have been both astonished and afraid; for after his eyes had
rested upon the ungainly form of the horse for a moment he walked
rapidly to the furthest edge of the roof, his head turned back over his
shoulder to gaze at the strange animal.

"Look out!" cried Dorothy, who noticed that the beautiful man did not
look where he was going; "be careful, or you'll fall off!"

But he paid no attention to her warning.  He reached the edge of the
tall roof, stepped one foot out into the air, and walked into space as
calmly as if he were on firm ground.

The girl, greatly astonished, ran to lean over the edge of the roof,
and saw the man walking rapidly through the air toward the ground.
Soon he reached the street and disappeared through a glass doorway into
one of the glass buildings.

"How strange!" she exclaimed, drawing a long breath.

"Yes; but it's lots of fun, if it IS strange," remarked the small voice
of the kitten, and Dorothy turned to find her pet walking in the air a
foot or so away from the edge of the roof.

"Come back, Eureka!" she called, in distress, "you'll certainly be
killed."

"I have nine lives," said the kitten, purring softly as it walked
around in a circle and then came back to the roof;  "but I can't lose
even one of them by falling in this country, because I really couldn't
manage to fall if I wanted to."

"Does the air bear up your weight?" asked the girl.

"Of course; can't you see?" and again the kitten wandered into the air
and back to the edge of the roof.

"It's wonderful!" said Dorothy.

"Suppose we let Eureka go down to the street and get some one to help
us," suggested Zeb, who had been even more amazed than Dorothy at these
strange happenings.

"Perhaps we can walk on the air ourselves," replied the girl.

Zeb drew back with a shiver.

"I wouldn't dare try," he said.

"Maybe Jim will go," continued Dorothy, looking at the horse.

"And maybe he won't!" answered Jim.  "I've tumbled through the air long
enough to make me contented on this roof."

"But we didn't tumble to the roof," said the girl; "by the time we
reached here we were floating very slowly, and I'm almost sure we could
float down to the street without getting hurt.  Eureka walks on the air
all right."

"Eureka weights only about half a pound," replied the horse, in a
scornful tone, "while I weigh about half a ton."

"You don't weigh as much as you ought to, Jim," remarked the girl,
shaking her head as she looked at the animal.  "You're dreadfully
skinny."

"Oh, well; I'm old," said the horse, hanging his head despondently,
"and I've had lots of trouble in my day, little one.  For a good many
years I drew a public cab in Chicago, and that's enough to make anyone
skinny."

"He eats enough to get fat, I'm sure," said the boy, gravely.

"Do I?  Can you remember any breakfast that I've had today?" growled
Jim, as if he resented Zeb's speech.

"None of us has had breakfast," said the boy; "and in a time of danger
like this it's foolish to talk about eating."

"Nothing is more dangerous than being without food," declared the
horse, with a sniff at the rebuke of his young master; "and just at
present no one can tell whether there are any oats in this queer
country or not.  If there are, they are liable to be glass oats!"

"Oh, no!" exclaimed Dorothy.  "I can see plenty of nice gardens and
fields down below us, at the edge of this city.  But I wish we could
find a way to get to the ground."

"Why don't you walk down?" asked Eureka.  "I'm as hungry as the horse
is, and I want my milk."

"Will you try it, Zeb?" asked the girl, turning to her companion.

Zeb hesitated.  He was still pale and frightened, for this dreadful
adventure had upset him and made him nervous and worried.  But he did
not wish the little girl to think him a coward, so he advanced slowly
to the edge of the roof.

Dorothy stretched out a hand to him and Zeb put one foot out and let it
rest in the air a little over the edge of the roof.  It seemed firm
enough to walk upon, so he took courage and put out the other foot.
Dorothy kept hold of his hand and followed him, and soon they were both
walking through the air, with the kitten frisking beside them.

"Come on, Jim!" called the boy.  "It's all right."

Jim had crept to the edge of the roof to look over, and being a
sensible horse and quite experienced, he made up his mind that he could
go where the others did.  So, with a snort and a neigh and a whisk of
his short tail he trotted off the roof into the air and at once began
floating downward to the street.  His great weight made him fall faster
than the children walked, and he passed them on the way down; but when
he came to the glass pavement he alighted upon it so softly that he was
not even jarred.

"Well, well!" said Dorothy, drawing a long breath, "What a strange
country this is."

People began to come out of the glass doors to look at the new
arrivals, and pretty soon quite a crowd had assembled.  There were men
and women, but no children at all, and the folks were all beautifully
formed and attractively dressed and had wonderfully handsome faces.
There was not an ugly person in all the throng, yet Dorothy was not
especially pleased by the appearance of these people because their
features had no more expression than the faces of dolls.  They did not
smile nor did they frown, or show either fear or surprise or curiosity
or friendliness.  They simply started at the strangers, paying most
attention to Jim and Eureka, for they had never before seen either a
horse or a cat and the children bore an outward resemblance to
themselves.

Pretty soon a man joined the group who wore a glistening star in the
dark hair just over his forehead.  He seemed to be a person of
authority, for the others pressed back to give him room.  After turning
his composed eyes first upon the animals and then upon the children he
said to Zeb, who was a little taller than Dorothy:

"Tell me, intruder, was it you who caused the Rain of Stones?"

For a moment the boy did not know what he meant by this question.
Then, remembering the stones that had fallen with them and passed them
long before they had reached this place, he answered:

"No, sir; we didn't cause anything.  It was the earthquake."

The man with the star stood for a time quietly thinking over this
speech.  Then he asked:

"What is an earthquake?"

"I don't know," said Zeb, who was still confused.  But Dorothy, seeing
his perplexity, answered:

"It's a shaking of the earth.  In this quake a big crack opened and we
fell through--horse and buggy, and all--and the stones got loose and
came down with us."

The man with the star regarded her with his calm, expressionless eyes.

"The Rain of Stones has done much damage to our city," he said; "and we
shall hold you responsible for it unless you can prove your innocence."

"How can we do that?" asked the girl.

"That I am not prepared to say.  It is your affair, not mine.  You must
go to the House of the Sorcerer, who will soon discover the truth."

"Where is the House of the Sorcerer?" the girl enquired.

"I will lead you to it.  Come!"

He turned and walked down the street, and after a moment's hesitation
Dorothy caught Eureka in her arms and climbed into the buggy.  The boy
took his seat beside her and said: "Gid-dap Jim."

As the horse ambled along, drawing the buggy, the people of the glass
city made way for them and formed a procession in their rear.  Slowly
they moved down one street and up another, turning first this way and
then that, until they came to an open square in the center of which was
a big glass palace having a central dome and four tall spires on each
corner.




3.  The Arrival Of The Wizard


The doorway of the glass palace was quite big enough for the horse and
buggy to enter, so Zeb drove straight through it and the children found
themselves in a lofty hall that was very beautiful.  The people at once
followed and formed a circle around the sides of the spacious room,
leaving the horse and buggy and the man with the star to occupy the
center of the hall.

"Come to us, oh, Gwig!" called the man, in a loud voice.

Instantly a cloud of smoke appeared and rolled over the floor; then it
slowly spread and ascended into the dome, disclosing a strange
personage seated upon a glass throne just before Jim's nose.  He was
formed just as were the other inhabitants of this land and his clothing
only differed from theirs in being bright yellow.  But he had no hair
at all, and all over his bald head and face and upon the backs of his
hands grew sharp thorns like those found on the branches of
rose-bushes.  There was even a thorn upon the tip of his nose and he
looked so funny that Dorothy laughed when she saw him.

The Sorcerer, hearing the laugh, looked toward the little girl with
cold, cruel eyes, and his glance made her grow sober in an instant.

"Why have you dared to intrude your unwelcome persons into the secluded
Land of the Mangaboos?" he asked, sternly.

"'Cause we couldn't help it," said Dorothy.

"Why did you wickedly and viciously send the Rain of Stones to crack
and break our houses?" he continued.

"We didn't," declared the girl.

"Prove it!" cried the Sorcerer.

"We don't have to prove it," answered Dorothy, indignantly.  "If you
had any sense at all you'd known it was the earthquake."

"We only know that yesterday came a Rain of Stones upon us, which did
much damage and injured some of our people.  Today came another Rain of
Stones, and soon after it you appeared among us."

"By the way," said the man with the star, looking steadily at the
Sorcerer, "you told us yesterday that there would not be a second Rain
of Stones.  Yet one has just occurred that was even worse than the
first.  What is your sorcery good for if it cannot tell us the truth?"

"My sorcery does tell the truth!" declared the thorn-covered man.  "I
said there would be but one Rain of Stones.  This second one was a Rain
of People-and-Horse-and-Buggy.  And some stones came with them."

"Will there be any more Rains?" asked the man with the star.

"No, my Prince."

"Neither stones nor people?"

"No, my Prince."

"Are you sure?"

"Quite sure, my Prince.  My sorcery tells me so."

Just then a man came running into the hall and addressed the Prince
after making a low bow.

"More wonders in the air, my Lord," said he.

Immediately the Prince and all of his people flocked out of the hall
into the street, that they might see what was about to happen.  Dorothy
and Zeb jumped out of the buggy and ran after them, but the Sorcerer
remained calmly in his throne.

Far up in the air was an object that looked like a balloon.  It was not
so high as the glowing star of the six colored suns, but was descending
slowly through the air--so slowly that at first it scarcely seemed to
move.

The throng stood still and waited.  It was all they could do, for to go
away and leave that strange sight was impossible; nor could they hurry
its fall in any way.  The earth children were not noticed, being so
near the average size of the Mangaboos, and the horse had remained in
the House of the Sorcerer, with Eureka curled up asleep on the seat of
the buggy.

Gradually the balloon grew bigger, which was proof that it was settling
down upon the Land of the Mangaboos.  Dorothy was surprised to find how
patient the people were, for her own little heart was beating rapidly
with excitement.  A balloon meant to her some other arrival from the
surface of the earth, and she hoped it would be some one able to assist
her and Zeb out of their difficulties.

In an hour the balloon had come near enough for her to see a basket
suspended below it; in two hours she could see a head looking over the
side of the basket; in three hours the big balloon settled slowly into
the great square in which they stood and came to rest on the glass
pavement.

Then a little man jumped out of the basket, took off his tall hat, and
bowed very gracefully to the crowd of Mangaboos around him.  He was
quite an old little man and his head was long and entirely bald.

"Why," cried Dorothy, in amazement, "it's Oz!"

The little man looked toward her and seemed as much surprised as she
was.  But he smiled and bowed as he answered:

"Yes, my dear; I am Oz, the Great and Terrible.  Eh?  And you are
little Dorothy, from Kansas.  I remember you very well."

"Who did you say it was?" whispered Zeb to the girl.

"It's the wonderful Wizard of Oz.  Haven't you heard of him?"

Just then the man with the star came and stood before the Wizard.

"Sir," said he, "why are you here, in the Land of the Mangaboos?"

"Didn't know what land it was, my son," returned the other, with a
pleasant smile; "and, to be honest, I didn't mean to visit you when I
started out.  I live on top of the earth, your honor, which is far
better than living inside it; but yesterday I went up in a balloon, and
when I came down I fell into a big crack in the earth, caused by an
earthquake.  I had let so much gas out of my balloon that I could not
rise again, and in a few minutes the earth closed over my head.  So I
continued to descend until I reached this place, and if you will show
me a way to get out of it, I'll go with pleasure.  Sorry to have
troubled you; but it couldn't be helped."

The Prince had listened with attention.  Said he:

"This child, who is from the crust of the earth, like yourself, called
you a Wizard.  Is not a Wizard something like a Sorcerer?"

"It's better," replied Oz, promptly.  "One Wizard is worth three
Sorcerers."

"Ah, you shall prove that," said the Prince.  "We Mangaboos have, at
the present time, one of the most wonderful Sorcerers that ever was
picked from a bush; but he sometimes makes mistakes.  Do you ever make
mistakes?"

"Never!" declared the Wizard, boldly.

"Oh, Oz!" said Dorothy; "you made a lot of mistakes when you were in
the marvelous Land of Oz."

"Nonsense!" said the little man, turning red--although just then a ray
of violet sunlight was on his round face.

"Come with me," said the Prince to him.  "I wish to meet our Sorcerer."

The Wizard did not like this invitation, but he could not refuse to
accept it.  So he followed the Prince into the great domed hall, and
Dorothy and Zeb came after them, while the throng of people trooped in
also.

There sat the thorny Sorcerer in his chair of state, and when the
Wizard saw him he began to laugh, uttering comical little chuckles.

"What an absurd creature!" he exclaimed.

"He may look absurd," said the Prince, in his quiet voice; "but he is
an excellent Sorcerer.  The only fault I find with him is that he is so
often wrong."

"I am never wrong," answered the Sorcerer.

"Only a short time ago you told me there would be no more Rain of
Stones or of People," said the Prince.

"Well, what then?"

"Here is another person descended from the air to prove you were wrong."

"One person cannot be called 'people,'" said the Sorcerer.  "If two
should come out of the sky you might with justice say I was wrong; but
unless more than this one appears I will hold that I was right."

"Very clever," said the Wizard, nodding his head as if pleased.  "I am
delighted to find humbugs inside the earth, just the same as on top of
it.  Were you ever with a circus, brother?"

"No," said the Sorcerer.

"You ought to join one," declared the little man seriously.  "I belong
to Bailum & Barney's Great Consolidated Shows--three rings in one tent
and a menagerie on the side.  It's a fine aggregation, I assure you."

"What do you do?" asked the Sorcerer.

"I go up in a balloon, usually, to draw the crowds to the circus.  But
I've just had the bad luck to come out of the sky, skip the solid
earth, and land lower down than I intended.  But never mind.  It isn't
everybody who gets a chance to see your Land of the Gabazoos."

"Mangaboos," said the Sorcerer, correcting him.  "If you are a Wizard
you ought to be able to call people by their right names."

"Oh, I'm a Wizard; you may be sure of that.  Just as good a Wizard as
you are a Sorcerer."

"That remains to be seen," said the other.

"If you are able to prove that you are better," said the Prince to the
little man, "I will make you the Chief Wizard of this domain.
Otherwise--"

"What will happen otherwise?" asked the Wizard.

"I will stop you from living and forbid you to be planted," returned
the Prince.

"That does not sound especially pleasant," said the little man, looking
at the one with the star uneasily.  "But never mind.  I'll beat Old
Prickly, all right."

"My name is Gwig," said the Sorcerer, turning his heartless, cruel eyes
upon his rival.  "Let me see you equal the sorcery I am about to
perform."

He waved a thorny hand and at once the tinkling of bells was heard,
playing sweet music.  Yet, look where she would, Dorothy could discover
no bells at all in the great glass hall.

The Mangaboo people listened, but showed no great interest.  It was one
of the things Gwig usually did to prove he was a sorcerer.

Now was the Wizard's turn, so he smiled upon the assemblage and asked:

"Will somebody kindly loan me a hat?"

No one did, because the Mangaboos did not wear hats, and Zeb had lost
his, somehow, in his flight through the air.

"Ahem!" said the Wizard, "will somebody please loan me a handkerchief?"

But they had no handkerchiefs, either.

"Very good," remarked the Wizard.  "I'll use my own hat, if you please.
Now, good people, observe me carefully.  You see, there is nothing up
my sleeve and nothing concealed about my person.  Also, my hat is quite
empty."  He took off his hat and held it upside down, shaking it
briskly.

"Let me see it," said the Sorcerer.

He took the hat and examined it carefully, returning it afterward to
the Wizard.

"Now," said the little man, "I will create something out of nothing."

He placed the hat upon the glass floor, made a pass with his hand, and
then removed the hat, displaying a little white piglet no bigger than a
mouse, which began to run around here and there and to grunt and squeal
in a tiny, shrill voice.

The people watched it intently, for they had never seen a pig before,
big or little.  The Wizard reached out, caught the wee creature in his
hand, and holding its head between one thumb and finger and its tail
between the other thumb and finger he pulled it apart, each of the two
parts becoming a whole and separate piglet in an instant.

He placed one upon the floor, so that it could run around, and pulled
apart the other, making three piglets in all; and then one of these was
pulled apart, making four piglets.  The Wizard continued this
surprising performance until nine tiny piglets were running about at
his feet, all squealing and grunting in a very comical way.

"Now," said the Wizard of Oz, "having created something from nothing, I
will make something nothing again."

With this he caught up two of the piglets and pushed them together, so
that the two were one.  Then he caught up another piglet and pushed it
into the first, where it disappeared.  And so, one by one, the nine
tiny piglets were pushed together until but a single one of the
creatures remained.  This the Wizard placed underneath his hat and made
a mystic sign above it.  When he removed his hat the last piglet had
disappeared entirely.

The little man gave a bow to the silent throng that had watched him,
and then the Prince said, in his cold, calm voice:

"You are indeed a wonderful Wizard, and your powers are greater than
those of my Sorcerer."

"He will not be a wonderful Wizard long," remarked Gwig.

"Why not?" enquired the Wizard.

"Because I am going to stop your breath," was the reply.  "I perceive
that you are curiously constructed, and that if you cannot breathe you
cannot keep alive."

The little man looked troubled.

"How long will it take you to stop my breath?" he asked.

"About five minutes.  I'm going to begin now.  Watch me carefully."

He began making queer signs and passes toward the Wizard; but the
little man did not watch him long.  Instead, he drew a leathern case
from his pocket and took from it several sharp knives, which he joined
together, one after another, until they made a long sword.  By the time
he had attached a handle to this sword he was having much trouble to
breathe, as the charm of the Sorcerer was beginning to take effect.

So the Wizard lost no more time, but leaping forward he raised the
sharp sword, whirled it once or twice around his head, and then gave a
mighty stroke that cut the body of the Sorcerer exactly in two.

Dorothy screamed and expected to see a terrible sight; but as the two
halves of the Sorcerer fell apart on the floor she saw that he had no
bones or blood inside of him at all, and that the place where he was
cut looked much like a sliced turnip or potato.

"Why, he's vegetable!" cried the Wizard, astonished.

"Of course," said the Prince.  "We are all vegetable, in this country.
Are you not vegetable, also?"

"No," answered the Wizard.  "People on top of the earth are all meat.
Will your Sorcerer die?"

"Certainly, sir.  He is really dead now, and will wither very quickly.
So we must plant him at once, that other Sorcerers may grow upon his
bush," continued the Prince.

"What do you mean by that?" asked the little Wizard, greatly puzzled.

"If you will accompany me to our public gardens," replied the Prince,
"I will explain to you much better than I can here the mysteries of our
Vegetable Kingdom."




4.  The Vegetable Kingdom


After the Wizard had wiped the dampness from his sword and taken it
apart and put the pieces into their leathern case again, the man with
the star ordered some of his people to carry the two halves of the
Sorcerer to the public gardens.

Jim pricked up his ears when he heard they were going to the gardens,
and wanted to join the party, thinking he might find something proper
to eat; so Zeb put down the top of the buggy and invited the Wizard to
ride with them.  The seat was amply wide enough for the little man and
the two children, and when Jim started to leave the hall the kitten
jumped upon his back and sat there quite contentedly.

So the procession moved through the streets, the bearers of the
Sorcerer first, the Prince next, then Jim drawing the buggy with the
strangers inside of it, and last the crowd of vegetable people who had
no hearts and could neither smile nor frown.

The glass city had several fine streets, for a good many people lived
there; but when the procession had passed through these it came upon a
broad plain covered with gardens and watered by many pretty brooks that
flowed through it.  There were paths through these gardens, and over
some of the brooks were ornamental glass bridges.

Dorothy and Zeb now got out of the buggy and walked beside the Prince,
so that they might see and examine the flowers and plants better.

"Who built these lovely bridges?" asked the little girl.

"No one built them," answered the man with the star.  "They grow."

"That's queer," said she.  "Did the glass houses in your city grow,
too?"

"Of course," he replied.  "But it took a good many years for them to
grow as large and fine as they are now.  That is why we are so angry
when a Rain of Stones comes to break our towers and crack our roofs."

"Can't you mend them?" she enquired.

"No; but they will grow together again, in time, and we must wait until
they do."

They first passed through many beautiful gardens of flowers, which grew
nearest the city; but Dorothy could hardly tell what kind of flowers
they were, because the colors were constantly changing under the
shifting lights of the six suns.  A flower would be pink one second,
white the next, then blue or yellow; and it was the same way when they
came to the plants, which had broad leaves and grew close to the ground.

When they passed over a field of grass Jim immediately stretched down
his head and began to nibble.

"A nice country this is," he grumbled, "where a respectable horse has
to eat pink grass!"

"It's violet," said the Wizard, who was in the buggy.

"Now it's blue," complained the horse.  "As a matter of fact, I'm
eating rainbow grass."

"How does it taste?" asked the Wizard.

"Not bad at all," said Jim.  "If they give me plenty of it I'll not
complain about its color."

By this time the party had reached a freshly plowed field, and the
Prince said to Dorothy:

"This is our planting-ground."

Several Mangaboos came forward with glass spades and dug a hole in the
ground.  Then they put the two halves of the Sorcerer into it and
covered him up.  After that other people brought water from a brook and
sprinkled the earth.

"He will sprout very soon," said the Prince, "and grow into a large
bush, from which we shall in time be able to pick several very good
sorcerers."

"Do all your people grow on bushes?" asked the boy.

"Certainly," was the reply.  "Do not all people grow upon bushes where
you came from, on the outside of the earth?"

"Not that I ever hear of."

"How strange!  But if you will come with me to one of our folk gardens
I will show you the way we grow in the Land of the Mangaboos."

It appeared that these odd people, while they were able to walk through
the air with ease, usually moved upon the ground in the ordinary way.
There were no stairs in their houses, because they did not need them,
but on a level surface they generally walked just as we do.

The little party of strangers now followed the Prince across a few more
of the glass bridges and along several paths until they came to a
garden enclosed by a high hedge.  Jim had refused to leave the field of
grass, where he was engaged in busily eating; so the Wizard got out of
the buggy and joined Zeb and Dorothy, and the kitten followed demurely
at their heels.

Inside the hedge they came upon row after row of large and handsome
plants with broad leaves gracefully curving until their points nearly
reached the ground.  In the center of each plant grew a daintily
dressed Mangaboo, for the clothing of all these creatures grew upon
them and was attached to their bodies.

The growing Mangaboos were of all sizes, from the blossom that had just
turned into a wee baby to the full-grown and almost ripe man or woman.
On some of the bushes might be seen a bud, a blossom, a baby, a
half-grown person and a ripe one; but even those ready to pluck were
motionless and silent, as if devoid of life.  This sight explained to
Dorothy why she had seen no children among the Mangaboos, a thing she
had until now been unable to account for.

"Our people do not acquire their real life until they leave their
bushes," said the Prince.  "You will notice they are all attached to
the plants by the soles of their feet, and when they are quite ripe
they are easily separated from the stems and at once attain the powers
of motion and speech.  So while they grow they cannot be said to really
live, and they must be picked before they can become good citizens."

"How long do you live, after you are picked?" asked Dorothy.

"That depends upon the care we take of ourselves," he replied.  "If we
keep cool and moist, and meet with no accidents, we often live for five
years.  I've been picked over six years, but our family is known to be
especially long lived."

"Do you eat?" asked the boy.

"Eat!  No, indeed.  We are quite solid inside our bodies, and have no
need to eat, any more than does a potato."

"But the potatoes sometimes sprout," said Zeb.

"And sometimes we do," answered the Prince; "but that is considered a
great misfortune, for then we must be planted at once."

"Where did you grow?" asked the Wizard.

"I will show you," was the reply. "Step this way, please."

He led them within another but smaller circle of hedge, where grew one
large and beautiful bush.

"This," said he, "is the Royal Bush of the Mangaboos.  All of our
Princes and Rulers have grown upon this one bush from time immemorial."

They stood before it in silent admiration.  On the central stalk stood
poised the figure of a girl so exquisitely formed and colored and so
lovely in the expression of her delicate features that Dorothy thought
she had never seen so sweet and adorable a creature in all her life.
The maiden's gown was soft as satin and fell about her in ample folds,
while dainty lace-like traceries trimmed the bodice and sleeves.  Her
flesh was fine and smooth as polished ivory, and her poise expressed
both dignity and grace.

"Who is this?" asked the Wizard, curiously.

The Prince had been staring hard at the girl on the bush.  Now he
answered, with a touch of uneasiness in his cold tones:

"She is the Ruler destined to be my successor, for she is a Royal
Princess.  When she becomes fully ripe I must abandon the sovereignty
of the Mangaboos to her."

"Isn't she ripe now?" asked Dorothy.

He hesitated.

"Not quite," said he, finally.  "It will be several days before she
needs to be picked, or at least that is my judgment.  I am in no hurry
to resign my office and be planted, you may be sure."

"Probably not," declared the Wizard, nodding.

"This is one of the most unpleasant things about our vegetable lives,"
continued the Prince, with a sigh, "that while we are in our full prime
we must give way to another, and be covered up in the ground to sprout
and grow and give birth to other people."

"I'm sure the Princess is ready to be picked," asserted Dorothy, gazing
hard at the beautiful girl on the bush.  "She's as perfect as she can
be."

"Never mind," answered the Prince, hastily, "she will be all right for
a few days longer, and it is best for me to rule until I can dispose of
you strangers, who have come to our land uninvited and must be attended
to at once."

"What are you going to do with us?" asked Zeb.

"That is a matter I have not quite decided upon," was the reply.  "I
think I shall keep this Wizard until a new Sorcerer is ready to pick,
for he seems quite skillful and may be of use to us.  But the rest of
you must be destroyed in some way, and you cannot be planted, because I
do not wish horses and cats and meat people growing all over our
country."

"You needn't worry," said Dorothy.  "We wouldn't grow under ground, I'm
sure."

"But why destroy my friends?" asked the little Wizard.  "Why not let
them live?"

"They do not belong here," returned the Prince.  "They have no right to
be inside the earth at all."

"We didn't ask to come down here; we fell," said Dorothy.

"That is no excuse," declared the Prince, coldly.

The children looked at each other in perplexity, and the Wizard sighed.
Eureka rubbed her paw on her face and said in her soft, purring voice:

"He won't need to destroy ME, for if I don't get something to eat
pretty soon I shall starve to death, and so save him the trouble."

"If he planted you, he might grow some cat-tails," suggested the Wizard.

"Oh, Eureka! perhaps we can find you some milk-weeds to eat," said the
boy.

"Phoo!" snarled the kitten; "I wouldn't touch the nasty things!"

"You don't need milk, Eureka," remarked Dorothy; "you are big enough
now to eat any kind of food."

"If I can get it," added Eureka.

"I'm hungry myself," said Zeb.  "But I noticed some strawberries
growing in one of the gardens, and some melons in another place.  These
people don't eat such things, so perhaps on our way back they will let
us get them."

"Never mind your hunger," interrupted the Prince.  "I shall order you
destroyed in a few minutes, so you will have no need to ruin our pretty
melon vines and berry bushes.  Follow me, please, to meet your doom."




5.  Dorothy Picks the Princess


The words of the cold and moist vegetable Prince were not very
comforting, and as he spoke them he turned away and left the enclosure.
The children, feeling sad and despondent, were about to follow him when
the Wizard touched Dorothy softly on her shoulder.

"Wait!" he whispered.

"What for?" asked the girl.

"Suppose we pick the Royal Princess," said the Wizard.  "I'm quite sure
she's ripe, and as soon as she comes to life she will be the Ruler, and
may treat us better than that heartless Prince intends to."

"All right!" exclaimed Dorothy, eagerly.  "Let's pick her while we have
the chance, before the man with the star comes back."

So together they leaned over the great bush and each of them seized one
hand of the lovely Princess.

"Pull!" cried Dorothy, and as they did so the royal lady leaned toward
them and the stems snapped and separated from her feet.  She was not at
all heavy, so the Wizard and Dorothy managed to lift her gently to the
ground.

The beautiful creature passed her hands over her eyes an instant,
tucked in a stray lock of hair that had become disarranged, and after a
look around the garden made those present a gracious bow and said, in a
sweet but even toned voice:

"I thank you very much."

"We salute your Royal Highness!" cried the Wizard, kneeling and kissing
her hand.

Just then the voice of the Prince was heard calling upon them to
hasten, and a moment later he returned to the enclosure, followed by a
number of his people.

Instantly the Princess turned and faced him, and when he saw that she
was picked the Prince stood still and began to tremble.

"Sir," said the Royal Lady, with much dignity, "you have wronged me
greatly, and would have wronged me still more had not these strangers
come to my rescue.  I have been ready for picking all the past week,
but because you were selfish and desired to continue your unlawful
rule, you left me to stand silent upon my bush."

"I did not know that you were ripe," answered the Prince, in a low
voice.

"Give me the Star of Royalty!" she commanded.

Slowly he took the shining star from his own brow and placed it upon
that of the Princess.  Then all the people bowed low to her, and the
Prince turned and walked away alone.  What became of him afterward our
friends never knew.

The people of Mangaboo now formed themselves into a procession and
marched toward the glass city to escort their new ruler to her palace
and to perform those ceremonies proper to the occasion.  But while the
people in the procession walked upon the ground the Princess walked in
the air just above their heads, to show that she was a superior being
and more exalted than her subjects.

No one now seemed to pay any attention to the strangers, so Dorothy and
Zeb and the Wizard let the train pass on and then wandered by
themselves into the vegetable gardens.  They did not bother to cross
the bridges over the brooks, but when they came to a stream they
stepped high and walked in the air to the other side.  This was a very
interesting experience to them, and Dorothy said:

"I wonder why it is that we can walk so easily in the air."

"Perhaps," answered the Wizard, "it is because we are close to the
center of the earth, where the attraction of gravitation is very
slight.  But I've noticed that many queer things happen in fairy
countries."

"Is this a fairy country?" asked the boy.

"Of course it is," returned Dorothy promptly.  "Only a fairy country
could have veg'table people; and only in a fairy country could Eureka
and Jim talk as we do."

"That's true," said Zeb, thoughtfully.

In the vegetable gardens they found the strawberries and melons, and
several other unknown but delicious fruits, of which they ate heartily.
But the kitten bothered them constantly by demanding milk or meat, and
called the Wizard names because he could not bring her a dish of milk
by means of his magical arts.

As they sat upon the grass watching Jim, who was still busily eating,
Eureka said:

"I don't believe you are a Wizard at all!"

"No," answered the little man, "you are quite right.  In the strict
sense of the word I am not a Wizard, but only a humbug."

"The Wizard of Oz has always been a humbug," agreed Dorothy.  "I've
known him for a long time."

"If that is so," said the boy, "how could he do that wonderful trick
with the nine tiny piglets?"

"Don't know," said Dorothy, "but it must have been humbug."

"Very true," declared the Wizard, nodding at her.  "It was necessary to
deceive that ugly Sorcerer and the Prince, as well as their stupid
people; but I don't mind telling you, who are my friends, that the
thing was only a trick."

"But I saw the little pigs with my own eyes!" exclaimed Zeb.

"So did I," purred the kitten.

"To be sure," answered the Wizard.  "You saw them because they were
there.  They are in my inside pocket now.  But the pulling of them
apart and pushing them together again was only a sleight-of-hand trick."

"Let's see the pigs," said Eureka, eagerly.

The little man felt carefully in his pocket and pulled out the tiny
piglets, setting them upon the grass one by one, where they ran around
and nibbled the tender blades.

"They're hungry, too," he said.

"Oh, what cunning things!" cried Dorothy, catching up one and petting
it.

"Be careful!" said the piglet, with a squeal, "you're squeezing me!"

"Dear me!" murmured the Wizard, looking at his pets in astonishment.
"They can actually talk!"

"May I eat one of them?" asked the kitten, in a pleading voice.  "I'm
awfully hungry."

"Why, Eureka," said Dorothy, reproachfully, "what a cruel question!  It
would be dreadful to eat these dear little things."

"I should say so!" grunted another of the piglets, looking uneasily at
the kitten; "cats are cruel things."

"I'm not cruel," replied the kitten, yawning.  "I'm just hungry."

"You cannot eat my piglets, even if you are starving,"  declared the
little man, in a stern voice.  "They are the only things I have to
prove I'm a wizard."

"How did they happen to be so little?" asked Dorothy.  "I never saw
such small pigs before."

"They are from the Island of Teenty-Weent," said the Wizard, "where
everything is small because it's a small island.  A sailor brought them
to Los Angeles and I gave him nine tickets to the circus for them."

"But what am I going to eat?" wailed the kitten, sitting in front of
Dorothy and looking pleadingly into her face.  "There are no cows here
to give milk; or any mice, or even grasshoppers.  And if I can't eat
the piglets you may as well plant me at once and raise catsup."

"I have an idea," said the Wizard, "that there are fishes in these
brooks.  Do you like fish?"

"Fish!" cried the kitten.  "Do I like fish?  Why, they're better than
piglets--or even milk!"

"Then I'll try to catch you some," said he.

"But won't they be veg'table, like everything else here?" asked the
kitten.

"I think not.  Fishes are not animals, and they are as cold and moist
as the vegetables themselves.  There is no reason, that I can see, why
they may not exist in the waters of this strange country."

Then the Wizard bent a pin for a hook and took a long piece of string
from his pocket for a fish-line.  The only bait he could find was a
bright red blossom from a flower; but he knew fishes are easy to fool
if anything bright attracts their attention, so he decided to try the
blossom.  Having thrown the end of his line in the water of a nearby
brook he soon felt a sharp tug that told him a fish had bitten and was
caught on the bent pin; so the little man drew in the string and, sure
enough, the fish came with it and was landed safely on the shore, where
it began to flop around in great excitement.

The fish was fat and round, and its scales glistened like beautifully
cut jewels set close together; but there was no time to examine it
closely, for Eureka made a jump and caught it between her claws, and in
a few moments it had entirely disappeared.

"Oh, Eureka!" cried Dorothy, "did you eat the bones?"

"If it had any bones, I ate them," replied the kitten, composedly, as
it washed its face after the meal.  "But I don't think that fish had
any bones, because I didn't feel them scratch my throat."

"You were very greedy," said the girl.

"I was very hungry," replied the kitten.

The little pigs had stood huddled in a group, watching this scene with
frightened eyes.

"Cats are dreadful creatures!" said one of them.

"I'm glad we are not fishes!" said another.

"Don't worry,"  Dorothy murmured, soothingly,  "I'll not let the kitten
hurt you."

Then she happened to remember that in a corner of her suit-case were
one or two crackers that were left over from her luncheon on the train,
and she went to the buggy and brought them.  Eureka stuck up her nose
at such food, but the tiny piglets squealed delightedly at the sight of
the crackers and ate them up in a jiffy.

"Now let us go back to the city," suggested the Wizard.  "That is, if
Jim has had enough of the pink grass."

The cab-horse, who was browsing near, lifted his head with a sigh.

"I've tried to eat a lot while I had the chance," said he, "for it's
likely to be a long while between meals in this strange country.  But
I'm ready to go, now, at any time you wish."

So, after the Wizard had put the piglets back into his inside pocket,
where they cuddled up and went to sleep, the three climbed into the
buggy and Jim started back to the town.

"Where shall we stay?" asked the girl.

"I think I shall take possession of the House of the Sorcerer," replied
the Wizard; "for the Prince said in the presence of his people that he
would keep me until they picked another Sorcerer, and the new Princess
won't know but that we belong there."

They agreed to this plan, and when they reached the great square Jim
drew the buggy into the big door of the domed hall.

"It doesn't look very homelike," said Dorothy, gazing around at the
bare room.  "But it's a place to stay, anyhow."

"What are those holes up there?" enquired the boy, pointing to some
openings that appeared near the top of the dome.

"They look like doorways," said Dorothy; "only there are no stairs to
get to them."

"You forget that stairs are unnecessary," observed the Wizard.  "Let us
walk up, and see where the doors lead to."

With this he began walking in the air toward the high openings, and
Dorothy and Zeb followed him.  It was the same sort of climb one
experiences when walking up a hill, and they were nearly out of breath
when they came to the row of openings, which they perceived to be
doorways leading into halls in the upper part of the house.  Following
these halls they discovered many small rooms opening from them, and
some were furnished with glass benches, tables and chairs.  But there
were no beds at all.

"I wonder if these people never sleep," said the girl.

"Why, there seems to be no night at all in this country," Zeb replied.
"Those colored suns are exactly in the same place they were when we
came, and if there is no sunset there can be no night."

"Very true," agreed the Wizard.  "But it is a long time since I have
had any sleep, and I'm tired.  So I think I shall lie down upon one of
these hard glass benches and take a nap."

"I will, too," said Dorothy, and chose a little room at the end of the
hall.

Zeb walked down again to unharness Jim, who, when he found himself
free, rolled over a few times and then settled down to sleep, with
Eureka nestling comfortably beside his big, boney body.  Then the boy
returned to one of the upper rooms, and in spite of the hardness of the
glass bench was soon deep in slumberland.




6.  The Mangaboos Prove Dangerous


When the Wizard awoke the six colored suns were shining down upon the
Land of the Mangaboos just as they had done ever since his arrival.
The little man, having had a good sleep, felt rested and refreshed, and
looking through the glass partition of the room he saw Zeb sitting up
on his bench and yawning.  So the Wizard went in to him.

"Zeb," said he, "my balloon is of no further use in this strange
country, so I may as well leave it on the square where it fell.  But in
the basket-car are some things I would like to keep with me.  I wish
you would go and fetch my satchel, two lanterns, and a can of kerosene
oil that is under the seat.  There is nothing else that I care about."

So the boy went willingly upon the errand, and by the time he had
returned Dorothy was awake.  Then the three held a counsel to decide
what they should do next, but could think of no way to better their
condition.

"I don't like these veg'table people," said the little girl.  "They're
cold and flabby, like cabbages, in spite of their prettiness."

"I agree with you.  It is because there is no warm blood in them,"
remarked the Wizard.

"And they have no hearts; so they can't love anyone--not even
themselves," declared the boy.

"The Princess is lovely to look at," continued Dorothy, thoughtfully;
"but I don't care much for her, after all.  If there was any other
place to go, I'd like to go there."

"But IS there any other place?" asked the Wizard.

"I don't know," she answered.

Just then they heard the big voice of Jim the cab-horse calling to
them, and going to the doorway leading to the dome they found the
Princess and a throng of her people had entered the House of the
Sorcerer.

So they went down to greet the beautiful vegetable lady, who said to
them:

"I have been talking with my advisors about you meat people, and we
have decided that you do not belong in the Land of the Mangaboos and
must not remain here."

"How can we go away?" asked Dorothy.

"Oh, you cannot go away, of course; so you must be destroyed," was the
answer.

"In what way?" enquired the Wizard.

"We shall throw you three people into the Garden of the Twining Vines,"
said the Princess, "and they will soon crush you and devour your bodies
to make themselves grow bigger.  The animals you have with you we will
drive to the mountains and put into the Black Pit.  Then our country
will be rid of all its unwelcome visitors."

"But you are in need of a Sorcerer," said the Wizard, "and not one of
those growing is yet ripe enough to pick.  I am greater than any
thorn-covered sorcerer that every grew in your garden.  Why destroy me?"

"It is true we need a Sorcerer," acknowledged the Princess, "but I am
informed that one of our own will be ready to pick in a few days, to
take the place of Gwig, whom you cut in two before it was time for him
to be planted.  Let us see your arts, and the sorceries you are able to
perform.  Then I will decide whether to destroy you with the others or
not."

At this the Wizard made a bow to the people and repeated his trick of
producing the nine tiny piglets and making them disappear again.  He
did it very cleverly, indeed, and the Princess looked at the strange
piglets as if she were as truly astonished as any vegetable person
could be.  But afterward she said:

"I have heard of this wonderful magic.  But it accomplishes nothing of
value.  What else can you do?"

The Wizard tried to think.  Then he jointed together the blades of his
sword and balanced it very skillfully upon the end of his nose.  But
even that did not satisfy the Princess.

Just then his eye fell upon the lanterns and the can of kerosene oil
which Zeb had brought from the car of his balloon, and he got a clever
idea from those commonplace things.

"Your Highness," said he, "I will now proceed to prove my magic by
creating two suns that you have never seen before; also I will exhibit
a Destroyer much more dreadful that your Clinging Vines."

So he placed Dorothy upon one side of him and the boy upon the other
and set a lantern upon each of their heads.

"Don't laugh," he whispered to them, "or you will spoil the effect of
my magic."

Then, with much dignity and a look of vast importance upon his wrinkled
face, the Wizard got out his match-box and lighted the two lanterns.
The glare they made was very small when compared with the radiance of
the six great colored suns; but still they gleamed steadily and
clearly.  The Mangaboos were much impressed because they had never
before seen any light that did not come directly from their suns.

Next the Wizard poured a pool of oil from the can upon the glass floor,
where it covered quite a broad surface.  When he lighted the oil a
hundred tongues of flame shot up, and the effect was really imposing.

"Now, Princess," exclaimed the Wizard, "those of your advisors who
wished to throw us into the Garden of Clinging Vines must step within
this circle of light.  If they advised you well, and were in the right,
they will not be injured in any way.  But if any advised you wrongly,
the light will wither him."

The advisors of the Princess did not like this test; but she commanded
them to step into the flame and one by one they did so, and were
scorched so badly that the air was soon filled with an odor like that
of baked potatoes.  Some of the Mangaboos fell down and had to be
dragged from the fire, and all were so withered that it would be
necessary to plant them at once.

"Sir," said the Princess to the Wizard, "you are greater than any
Sorcerer we have ever known.  As it is evident that my people have
advised me wrongly, I will not cast you three people into the dreadful
Garden of the Clinging Vines; but your animals must be driven into the
Black Pit in the mountain, for my subjects cannot bear to have them
around."

The Wizard was so pleased to have saved the two children and himself
that he said nothing against this decree; but when the Princess had
gone both Jim and Eureka protested they did not want to go to the Black
Pit, and Dorothy promised she would do all that she could to save them
from such a fate.

For two or three days after this--if we call days the periods between
sleep, there being no night to divide the hours into days--our friends
were not disturbed in any way.  They were even permitted to occupy the
House of the Sorcerer in peace, as if it had been their own, and to
wander in the gardens in search of food.

Once they came near to the enclosed Garden of the Clinging Vines, and
walking high into the air looked down upon it with much interest.  They
saw a mass of tough green vines all matted together and writhing and
twisting around like a nest of great snakes.  Everything the vines
touched they crushed, and our adventurers were indeed thankful to have
escaped being cast among them.

Whenever the Wizard went to sleep he would take the nine tiny piglets
from his pocket and let them run around on the floor of his room to
amuse themselves and get some exercise; and one time they found his
glass door ajar and wandered into the hall and then into the bottom
part of the great dome, walking through the air as easily as Eureka
could.  They knew the kitten, by this time, so they scampered over to
where she lay beside Jim and commenced to frisk and play with her.

The cab-horse, who never slept long at a time, sat upon his haunches
and watched the tiny piglets and the kitten with much approval.

"Don't be rough!" he would call out, if Eureka knocked over one of the
round, fat piglets with her paw; but the pigs never minded, and enjoyed
the sport very greatly.

Suddenly they looked up to find the room filled with the silent,
solemn-eyed Mangaboos.  Each of the vegetable folks bore a branch
covered with sharp thorns, which was thrust defiantly toward the horse,
the kitten and the piglets.

"Here--stop this foolishness!" Jim roared, angrily; but after being
pricked once or twice he got upon his four legs and kept out of the way
of the thorns.

The Mangaboos surrounded them in solid ranks, but left an opening to
the doorway of the hall; so the animals slowly retreated until they
were driven from the room and out upon the street.  Here were more of
the vegetable people with thorns, and silently they urged the now
frightened creatures down the street.  Jim had to be careful not to
step upon the tiny piglets, who scampered under his feet grunting and
squealing, while Eureka, snarling and biting at the thorns pushed
toward her, also tried to protect the pretty little things from injury.
Slowly but steadily the heartless Mangaboos drove them on, until they
had passed through the city and the gardens and come to the broad
plains leading to the mountain.

"What does all this mean, anyhow?" asked the horse, jumping to escape a
thorn.

"Why, they are driving us toward the Black Pit, into which they
threatened to cast us," replied the kitten.  "If I were as big as you
are, Jim, I'd fight these miserable turnip-roots!"

"What would you do?" enquired Jim.

"I'd kick out with those long legs and iron-shod hoofs."

"All right," said the horse; "I'll do it."

An instant later he suddenly backed toward the crowd of Mangaboos and
kicked out his hind legs as hard as he could.  A dozen of them smashed
together and tumbled to the ground, and seeing his success Jim kicked
again and again, charging into the vegetable crowd, knocking them in
all directions and sending the others scattering to escape his iron
heels.  Eureka helped him by flying into the faces of the enemy and
scratching and biting furiously, and the kitten ruined so many
vegetable complexions that the Mangaboos feared her as much as they did
the horse.

But the foes were too many to be repulsed for long.  They tired Jim and
Eureka out, and although the field of battle was thickly covered with
mashed and disabled Mangaboos, our animal friends had to give up at
last and allow themselves to be driven to the mountain.




7.  Into the Black Pit and Out Again


When they came to the mountain it proved to be a rugged, towering chunk
of deep green glass, and looked dismal and forbidding in the extreme.
Half way up the steep was a yawning cave, black as night beyond the
point where the rainbow rays of the colored suns reached into it.

The Mangaboos drove the horse and the kitten and the piglets into this
dark hole and then, having pushed the buggy in after them--for it
seemed some of them had dragged it all the way from the domed
hall--they began to pile big glass rocks within the entrance, so that
the prisoners could not get out again.

"This is dreadful!" groaned Jim.  "It will be about the end of our
adventures, I guess."

"If the Wizard was here," said one of the piglets, sobbing bitterly,
"he would not see us suffer so."

"We ought to have called him and Dorothy when we were first attacked,"
added Eureka.  "But never mind; be brave, my friends, and I will go and
tell our masters where you are, and get them to come to your rescue."

The mouth of the hole was nearly filled up now, but the kitten gave a
leap through the remaining opening and at once scampered up into the
air.  The Mangaboos saw her escape, and several of them caught up their
thorns and gave chase, mounting through the air after her.  Eureka,
however, was lighter than the Mangaboos, and while they could mount
only about a hundred feet above the earth the kitten found she could go
nearly two hundred feet.  So she ran along over their heads until she
had left them far behind and below and had come to the city and the
House of the Sorcerer.  There she entered in at Dorothy's window in the
dome and aroused her from her sleep.

As soon as the little girl knew what had happened she awakened the
Wizard and Zeb, and at once preparations were made to go to the rescue
of Jim and the piglets.  The Wizard carried his satchel, which was
quite heavy, and Zeb carried the two lanterns and the oil can.
Dorothy's wicker suit-case was still under the seat of the buggy, and
by good fortune the boy had also placed the harness in the buggy when
he had taken it off from Jim to let the horse lie down and rest.  So
there was nothing for the girl to carry but the kitten, which she held
close to her bosom and tried to comfort, for its little heart was still
beating rapidly.

Some of the Mangaboos discovered them as soon as they left the House of
the Sorcerer; but when they started toward the mountain the vegetable
people allowed them to proceed without interference, yet followed in a
crowd behind them so that they could not go back again.

Before long they neared the Black Pit, where a busy swarm of Mangaboos,
headed by their Princess, was engaged in piling up glass rocks before
the entrance.

"Stop, I command you!" cried the Wizard, in an angry tone, and at once
began pulling down the rocks to liberate Jim and the piglets.  Instead
of opposing him in this they stood back in silence until he had made a
good-sized hole in the barrier, when by order of the Princess they all
sprang forward and thrust out their sharp thorns.

Dorothy hopped inside the opening to escape being pricked, and Zeb and
the Wizard, after enduring a few stabs from the thorns, were glad to
follow her.  At once the Mangaboos began piling up the rocks of glass
again, and as the little man realized that they were all about to be
entombed in the mountain he said to the children:

"My dears, what shall we do?  Jump out and fight?"

"What's the use?" replied Dorothy.  "I'd as soon die here as live much
longer among these cruel and heartless people."

"That's the way I feel about it," remarked Zeb, rubbing his wounds.
"I've had enough of the Mangaboos."

"All right," said the Wizard; "I'm with you, whatever you decide.  But
we can't live long in this cavern, that's certain."

Noticing that the light was growing dim he picked up his nine piglets,
patted each one lovingly on its fat little head, and placed them
carefully in his inside pocket.

Zeb struck a match and lighted one of the lanterns.  The rays of the
colored suns were now shut out from them forever, for the last chinks
had been filled up in the wall that separated their prison from the
Land of the Mangaboos.

"How big is this hole?" asked Dorothy.

"I'll explore it and see," replied the boy.

So he carried the lantern back for quite a distance, while Dorothy and
the Wizard followed at his side.  The cavern did not come to an end, as
they had expected it would, but slanted upward through the great glass
mountain, running in a direction that promised to lead them to the side
opposite the Mangaboo country.

"It isn't a bad road," observed the Wizard, "and if we followed it it
might lead us to some place that is more comfortable than this black
pocket we are now in.  I suppose the vegetable folk were always afraid
to enter this cavern because it is dark; but we have our lanterns to
light the way, so I propose that we start out and discover where this
tunnel in the mountain leads to."

The others agreed readily to this sensible suggestion, and at once the
boy began to harness Jim to the buggy.  When all was in readiness the
three took their seats in the buggy and Jim started cautiously along
the way, Zeb driving while the Wizard and Dorothy each held a lighted
lantern so the horse could see where to go.

Sometimes the tunnel was so narrow that the wheels of the buggy grazed
the sides; then it would broaden out as wide as a street; but the floor
was usually smooth, and for a long time they travelled on without any
accident.  Jim stopped sometimes to rest, for the climb was rather
steep and tiresome.

"We must be nearly as high as the six colored suns, by this time," said
Dorothy.  "I didn't know this mountain was so tall."

"We are certainly a good distance away from the Land of the Mangaboos,"
added Zeb; "for we have slanted away from it ever since we started."

But they kept steadily moving, and just as Jim was about tired out with
his long journey the way suddenly grew lighter, and Zeb put out the
lanterns to save the oil.

To their joy they found it was a white light that now greeted them, for
all were weary of the colored rainbow lights which, after a time, had
made their eyes ache with their constantly shifting rays.  The sides of
the tunnel showed before them like the inside of a long spy-glass, and
the floor became more level.  Jim hastened his lagging steps at this
assurance of a quick relief from the dark passage, and in a few moments
more they had emerged from the mountain and found themselves face to
face with a new and charming country.




8.  The Valley of Voices


By journeying through the glass mountain they had reached a delightful
valley that was shaped like the hollow of a great cup, with another
rugged mountain showing on the other side of it, and soft and pretty
green hills at the ends.  It was all laid out into lovely lawns and
gardens, with pebble paths leading through them and groves of beautiful
and stately trees dotting the landscape here and there.  There were
orchards, too, bearing luscious fruits that are all unknown in our
world.  Alluring brooks of crystal water flowed sparkling between their
flower-strewn banks, while scattered over the valley were dozens of the
quaintest and most picturesque cottages our travelers had ever beheld.
None of them were in clusters, such as villages or towns, but each had
ample grounds of its own, with orchards and gardens surrounding it.

As the new arrivals gazed upon this exquisite scene they were
enraptured by its beauties and the fragrance that permeated the soft
air, which they breathed so gratefully after the confined atmosphere of
the tunnel.  Several minutes were consumed in silent admiration before
they noticed two very singular and unusual facts about this valley.
One was that it was lighted from some unseen source; for no sun or moon
was in the arched blue sky, although every object was flooded with a
clear and perfect light.  The second and even more singular fact was
the absence of any inhabitant of this splendid place.  From their
elevated position they could overlook the entire valley, but not a
single moving object could they see.  All appeared mysteriously
deserted.

The mountain on this side was not glass, but made of a stone similar to
granite.  With some difficulty and danger Jim drew the buggy over the
loose rocks until he reached the green lawns below, where the paths and
orchards and gardens began.  The nearest cottage was still some
distance away.

"Isn't it fine?" cried Dorothy, in a joyous voice, as she sprang out of
the buggy and let Eureka run frolicking over the velvety grass.

"Yes, indeed!" answered Zeb.  "We were lucky to get away from those
dreadful vegetable people."

"It wouldn't be so bad," remarked the Wizard, gazing around him, "if we
were obliged to live here always.  We couldn't find a prettier place,
I'm sure."

He took the piglets from his pocket and let them run on the grass, and
Jim tasted a mouthful of the green blades and declared he was very
contented in his new surroundings.

"We can't walk in the air here, though," called Eureka, who had tried
it and failed; but the others were satisfied to walk on the ground, and
the Wizard said they must be nearer the surface of the earth then they
had been in the Mangaboo country, for everything was more homelike and
natural.

"But where are the people?" asked Dorothy.

The little man shook his bald head.

"Can't imagine, my dear," he replied.

They heard the sudden twittering of a bird, but could not find the
creature anywhere.  Slowly they walked along the path toward the
nearest cottage, the piglets racing and gambolling beside them and Jim
pausing at every step for another mouthful of grass.

Presently they came to a low plant which had broad, spreading leaves,
in the center of which grew a single fruit about as large as a peach.
The fruit was so daintily colored and so fragrant, and looked so
appetizing and delicious that Dorothy stopped and exclaimed:

"What is it, do you s'pose?"

The piglets had smelled the fruit quickly, and before the girl could
reach out her hand to pluck it every one of the nine tiny ones had
rushed in and commenced to devour it with great eagerness.

"It's good, anyway," said Zeb, "or those little rascals wouldn't have
gobbled it up so greedily."

"Where are they?" asked Dorothy, in astonishment.

They all looked around, but the piglets had disappeared.

"Dear me!" cried the Wizard; "they must have run away.  But I didn't
see them go; did you?"

"No!" replied the boy and the girl, together.

"Here,--piggy, piggy, piggy!" called their master, anxiously.

Several squeals and grunts were instantly heard at his feet, but the
Wizard could not discover a single piglet.

"Where are you?" he asked.

"Why, right beside you," spoke a tiny voice.  "Can't you see us?"

"No," answered the little man, in a puzzled tone.

"We can see you," said another of the piglets.

The Wizard stooped down and put out his hand, and at once felt the
small fat body of one of his pets.  He picked it up, but could not see
what he held.

"It is very strange," said he, soberly.  "The piglets have become
invisible, in some curious way."

"I'll bet it's because they ate that peach!" cried the kitten.

"It wasn't a peach, Eureka," said Dorothy.  "I only hope it wasn't
poison."

"It was fine, Dorothy," called one of the piglets.

"We'll eat all we can find of them," said another.

"But WE mus'n't eat them," the Wizard warned the children, "or we too
may become invisible, and lose each other. If we come across another of
the strange fruit we must avoid it."

Calling the piglets to him he picked them all up, one by one, and put
them away in his pocket; for although he could not see them he could
feel them, and when he had buttoned his coat he knew they were safe for
the present.

The travellers now resumed their walk toward the cottage, which they
presently reached.  It was a pretty place, with vines growing thickly
over the broad front porch.  The door stood open and a table was set in
the front room, with four chairs drawn up to it.  On the table were
plates, knives and forks, and dishes of bread, meat and fruits.  The
meat was smoking hot and the knives and forks were performing strange
antics and jumping here and there in quite a puzzling way.  But not a
single person appeared to be in the room.

"How funny!" exclaimed Dorothy, who with Zeb and the Wizard now stood
in the doorway.

A peal of merry laughter answered her, and the knives and forks fell to
the plates with a clatter.  One of the chairs pushed back from the
table, and this was so astonishing and mysterious that Dorothy was
almost tempted to run away in fright.

"Here are strangers, mama!" cried the shrill and childish voice of some
unseen person.

"So I see, my dear," answered another voice, soft and womanly.

"What do you want?" demanded a third voice, in a stern, gruff accent.

"Well, well!" said the Wizard; "are there really people in this room?"

"Of course," replied the man's voice.

"And--pardon me for the foolish question--but, are you all invisible?"

"Surely," the woman answered, repeating her low, rippling laughter.
"Are you surprised that you are unable to see the people of Voe?"

"Why, yes," stammered the Wizard.  "All the people I have ever met
before were very plain to see."

"Where do you come from, then?" asked the woman, in a curious tone.

"We belong upon the face of the earth," explained the Wizard, "but
recently, during an earthquake, we fell down a crack and landed in the
Country of the Mangaboos."

"Dreadful creatures!" exclaimed the woman's voice.  "I've heard of
them."

"They walled us up in a mountain," continued the Wizard; "but we found
there was a tunnel through to this side, so we came here.  It is a
beautiful place.  What do you call it?"

"It is the Valley of Voe."

"Thank you.  We have seen no people since we arrived, so we came to
this house to enquire our way."

"Are you hungry?" asked the woman's voice.

"I could eat something," said Dorothy.

"So could I," added Zeb.

"But we do not wish to intrude, I assure you," the Wizard hastened to
say.

"That's all right," returned the man's voice, more pleasantly than
before.  "You are welcome to what we have."

As he spoke the voice came so near to Zeb that he jumped back in alarm.
Two childish voices laughed merrily at this action, and Dorothy was
sure they were in no danger among such light-hearted folks, even if
those folks couldn't be seen.

"What curious animal is that which is eating the grass on my lawn?"
enquired the man's voice.

"That's Jim," said the girl.  "He's a horse."

"What is he good for?" was the next question.

"He draws the buggy you see fastened to him, and we ride in the buggy
instead of walking," she explained.

"Can he fight?" asked the man's voice.

"No! he can kick pretty hard with his heels, and bite a little; but Jim
can't 'zactly fight," she replied.

"Then the bears will get him," said one of the children's voices.

"Bears!" exclaimed Dorothy.  "Are these bears here?"

"That is the one evil of our country," answered the invisible man.
"Many large and fierce bears roam in the Valley of Voe, and when they
can catch any of us they eat us up; but as they cannot see us, we
seldom get caught."

"Are the bears invis'ble, too?" asked the girl.

"Yes; for they eat of the dama-fruit, as we all do, and that keeps them
from being seen by any eye, whether human or animal."

"Does the dama-fruit grow on a low bush, and look something like a
peach?" asked the Wizard.

"Yes," was the reply.

"If it makes you invis'ble, why do you eat it?" Dorothy enquired.

"For two reasons, my dear," the woman's voice answered.  "The
dama-fruit is the most delicious thing that grows, and when it makes us
invisible the bears cannot find us to eat us up.  But now, good
wanderers, your luncheon is on the table, so please sit down and eat as
much as you like."




9.  They Fight the Invisible Bears


The strangers took their seats at the table willingly enough, for they
were all hungry and the platters were now heaped with good things to
eat.  In front of each place was a plate bearing one of the delicious
dama-fruit, and the perfume that rose from these was so enticing and
sweet that they were sorely tempted to eat of them and become invisible.

But Dorothy satisfied her hunger with other things, and her companions
did likewise, resisting the temptation.

"Why do you not eat the damas?" asked the woman's voice.

"We don't want to get invis'ble," answered the girl.

"But if you remain visible the bears will see you and devour you," said
a girlish young voice, that belonged to one of the children.  "We who
live here much prefer to be invisible; for we can still hug and kiss
one another, and are quite safe from the bears."

"And we do not have to be so particular about our dress," remarked the
man.

"And mama can't tell whether my face is dirty or not!" added the other
childish voice, gleefully.

"But I make you wash it, every time I think of it," said the mother;
"for it stands to reason your face is dirty, Ianu, whether I can see it
or not."

Dorothy laughed and stretched out her hands.

"Come here, please--Ianu and your sister--and let me feel of you," she
requested.

They came to her willingly, and Dorothy passed her hands over their
faces and forms and decided one was a girl of about her own age and the
other a boy somewhat smaller.  The girl's hair was soft and fluffy and
her skin as smooth as satin.  When Dorothy gently touched her nose and
ears and lips they seemed to be well and delicately formed.

"If I could see you I am sure you would be beautiful," she declared.

The girl laughed, and her mother said:

"We are not vain in the Valley of Voe, because we can not display our
beauty, and good actions and pleasant ways are what make us lovely to
our companions.  Yet we can see and appreciate the beauties of nature,
the dainty flowers and trees, the green fields and the clear blue of
the sky."

"How about the birds and beasts and fishes?" asked Zeb.

"The birds we cannot see, because they love to eat of the damas as much
as we do; yet we hear their sweet songs and enjoy them.  Neither can we
see the cruel bears, for they also eat the fruit.  But the fishes that
swim in our brooks we can see, and often we catch them to eat."

"It occurs to me you have a great deal to make you happy, even while
invisible," remarked the Wizard.  "Nevertheless, we prefer to remain
visible while we are in your valley."

Just then Eureka came in, for she had been until now wandering outside
with Jim; and when the kitten saw the table set with food she cried out:

"Now you must feed me, Dorothy, for I'm half starved."

The children were inclined to be frightened by the sight of the small
animal, which reminded them of the bears; but Dorothy reassured them by
explaining that Eureka was a pet and could do no harm even if she
wished to.  Then, as the others had by this time moved away from the
table, the kitten sprang upon the chair and put her paws upon the cloth
to see what there was to eat.  To her surprise an unseen hand clutched
her and held her suspended in the air.  Eureka was frantic with terror,
and tried to scratch and bite, so the next moment she was dropped to
the floor.

"Did you see that, Dorothy?" she gasped.

"Yes, dear," her mistress replied; "there are people living in this
house, although we cannot see them.  And you must have better manners,
Eureka, or something worse will happen to you."

She placed a plate of food upon the floor and the kitten ate greedily.

"Give me that nice-smelling fruit I saw on the table," she begged, when
she had cleaned the plate.

"Those are damas," said Dorothy, "and you must never even taste them,
Eureka, or you'll get invis'ble, and then we can't see you at all."

The kitten gazed wistfully at the forbidden fruit.

"Does it hurt to be invis'ble?" she asked.

"I don't know," Dorothy answered; "but it would hurt me dre'fully to
lose you."

"Very well, I won't touch it," decided the kitten; "but you must keep
it away from me, for the smell is very tempting."

"Can you tell us, sir or ma'am," said the Wizard, addressing the air
because he did not quite know where the unseen people stood, "if there
is any way we can get out of your beautiful Valley, and on top of the
Earth again."

"Oh, one can leave the Valley easily enough," answered the man's voice;
"but to do so you must enter a far less pleasant country.  As for
reaching the top of the earth, I have never heard that it is possible
to do that, and if you succeeded in getting there you would probably
fall off."

"Oh, no," said Dorothy, "we've been there, and we know."

"The Valley of Voe is certainly a charming place," resumed the Wizard;
"but we cannot be contented in any other land than our own, for long.
Even if we should come to unpleasant places on our way it is necessary,
in order to reach the earth's surface, to keep moving on toward it."

"In that case," said the man, "it will be best for you to cross our
Valley and mount the spiral staircase inside the Pyramid Mountain.  The
top of that mountain is lost in the clouds, and when you reach it you
will be in the awful Land of Naught, where the Gargoyles live."

"What are Gargoyles?" asked Zeb.

"I do not know, young sir.  Our greatest Champion, Overman-Anu, once
climbed the spiral stairway and fought nine days with the Gargoyles
before he could escape them and come back; but he could never be
induced to describe the dreadful creatures, and soon afterward a bear
caught him and ate him up."

The wanders were rather discouraged by this gloomy report, but Dorothy
said with a sigh:

"If the only way to get home is to meet the Gurgles, then we've got to
meet 'em.  They can't be worse than the Wicked Witch or the Nome King."

"But you must remember you had the Scarecrow and the Tin Woodman to
help you conquer those enemies," suggested the Wizard.  "Just now, my
dear, there is not a single warrior in your company."

"Oh, I guess Zeb could fight if he had to.  Couldn't you, Zeb?" asked
the little girl.

"Perhaps; if I had to," answered Zeb, doubtfully.

"And you have the jointed sword that you chopped the veg'table Sorcerer
in two with," the girl said to the little man.

"True," he replied; "and in my satchel are other useful things to fight
with."

"What the Gargoyles most dread is a noise," said the man's voice.  "Our
Champion told me that when he shouted his battle-cry the creatures
shuddered and drew back, hesitating to continue the combat.  But they
were in great numbers, and the Champion could not shout much because he
had to save his breath for fighting."

"Very good," said the Wizard; "we can all yell better than we can
fight, so we ought to defeat the Gargoyles."

"But tell me," said Dorothy, "how did such a brave Champion happen to
let the bears eat him?  And if he was invis'ble, and the bears
invis'ble, who knows that they really ate him up?"

"The Champion had killed eleven bears in his time," returned the unseen
man; "and we know this is true because when any creature is dead the
invisible charm of the dama-fruit ceases to be active, and the slain
one can be plainly seen by all eyes.  When the Champion killed a bear
everyone could see it; and when the bears killed the Champion we all
saw several pieces of him scattered about, which of course disappeared
again when the bears devoured them."

They now bade farewell to the kind but unseen people of the cottage,
and after the man had called their attention to a high, pyramid-shaped
mountain on the opposite side of the Valley, and told them how to
travel in order to reach it, they again started upon their journey.

They followed the course of a broad stream and passed several more
pretty cottages; but of course they saw no one, nor did any one speak
to them.  Fruits and flowers grew plentifully all about, and there were
many of the delicious damas that the people of Voe were so fond of.

About noon they stopped to allow Jim to rest in the shade of a pretty
orchard, and while they plucked and ate some of the cherries and plums
that grew there a soft voice suddenly said to them:

"There are bears near by.  Be careful."

The Wizard got out his sword at once, and Zeb grabbed the horse-whip.
Dorothy climbed into the buggy, although Jim had been unharnessed from
it and was grazing some distance away.

The owner of the unseen voice laughed lightly and said:

"You cannot escape the bears that way."

"How CAN we 'scape?" asked Dorothy, nervously, for an unseen danger is
always the hardest to face.

"You must take to the river," was the reply.  "The bears will not
venture upon the water."

"But we would be drowned!" exclaimed the girl.

"Oh, there is no need of that," said the voice, which from its gentle
tones seemed to belong to a young girl.  "You are strangers in the
Valley of Voe, and do not seem to know our ways; so I will try to save
you."

The next moment a broad-leaved plant was jerked from the ground where
it grew and held suspended in the air before the Wizard.

"Sir," said the voice, "you must rub these leaves upon the soles of all
your feet, and then you will be able to walk upon the water without
sinking below the surface.  It is a secret the bears do not know, and
we people of Voe usually walk upon the water when we travel, and so
escape our enemies."

"Thank you!" cried the Wizard, joyfully, and at once rubbed a leaf upon
the soles of Dorothy's shoes and then upon his own.  The girl took a
leaf and rubbed it upon the kitten's paws, and the rest of the plant
was handed to Zeb, who, after applying it to his own feet, carefully
rubbed it upon all four of Jim's hoofs and then upon the tires of the
buggy-wheels.  He had nearly finished this last task when a low
growling was suddenly heard and the horse began to jump around and kick
viciously with his heels.

"Quick!  To the water or you are lost!" cried their unseen friend, and
without hesitation the Wizard drew the buggy down the bank and out upon
the broad river, for Dorothy was still seated in it with Eureka in her
arms.  They did not sink at all, owing to the virtues of the strange
plant they had used, and when the buggy was in the middle of the stream
the Wizard returned to the bank to assist Zeb and Jim.

The horse was plunging madly about, and two or three deep gashes
appeared upon its flanks, from which the blood flowed freely.

"Run for the river!" shouted the Wizard, and Jim quickly freed himself
from his unseen tormenters by a few vicious kicks and then obeyed.  As
soon as he trotted out upon the surface of the river he found himself
safe from pursuit, and Zeb was already running across the water toward
Dorothy.

As the little Wizard turned to follow them he felt a hot breath against
his cheek and heard a low, fierce growl.  At once he began stabbing at
the air with his sword, and he knew that he had struck some substance
because when he drew back the blade it was dripping with blood.  The
third time that he thrust out the weapon there was a loud roar and a
fall, and suddenly at his feet appeared the form of a great red bear,
which was nearly as big as the horse and much stronger and fiercer.
The beast was quite dead from the sword thrusts, and after a glance at
its terrible claws and sharp teeth the little man turned in a panic and
rushed out upon the water, for other menacing growls told him more
bears were near.

On the river, however, the adventurers seemed to be perfectly safe.
Dorothy and the buggy had floated slowly down stream with the current
of the water, and the others made haste to join her.  The Wizard opened
his satchel and got out some sticking-plaster with which he mended the
cuts Jim had received from the claws of the bears.

"I think we'd better stick to the river, after this," said Dorothy.
"If our unknown friend hadn't warned us, and told us what to do, we
would all be dead by this time."

"That is true," agreed the Wizard, "and as the river seems to be
flowing in the direction of the Pyramid Mountain it will be the easiest
way for us to travel."

Zeb hitched Jim to the buggy again, and the horse trotted along and
drew them rapidly over the smooth water.  The kitten was at first
dreadfully afraid of getting wet, but Dorothy let her down and soon
Eureka was frisking along beside the buggy without being scared a bit.
Once a little fish swam too near the surface, and the kitten grabbed it
in her mouth and ate it up as quick as a wink; but Dorothy cautioned
her to be careful what she ate in this valley of enchantments, and no
more fishes were careless enough to swim within reach.

After a journey of several hours they came to a point where the river
curved, and they found they must cross a mile or so of the Valley
before they came to the Pyramid Mountain.  There were few houses in
this part, and few orchards or flowers; so our friends feared they
might encounter more of the savage bears, which they had learned to
dread with all their hearts.

"You'll have to make a dash, Jim," said the Wizard, "and run as fast as
you can go."

"All right," answered the horse; "I'll do my best.  But you must
remember I'm old, and my dashing days are past and gone."

All three got into the buggy and Zeb picked up the reins, though Jim
needed no guidance of any sort.  The horse was still smarting from the
sharp claws of the invisible bears, and as soon as he was on land and
headed toward the mountain the thought that more of those fearsome
creatures might be near acted as a spur and sent him galloping along in
a way that made Dorothy catch her breath.

Then Zeb, in a spirit of mischief, uttered a growl like that of the
bears, and Jim pricked up his ears and fairly flew.  His boney legs
moved so fast they could scarcely be seen, and the Wizard clung fast to
the seat and yelled "Whoa!" at the top of his voice.

"I--I'm 'fraid he's--he's running away!" gasped Dorothy.

"I KNOW he is," said Zeb; "but no bear can catch him if he keeps up
that gait--and the harness or the buggy don't break."

Jim did not make a mile a minute; but almost before they were aware of
it he drew up at the foot of the mountain, so suddenly that the Wizard
and Zeb both sailed over the dashboard and landed in the soft
grass--where they rolled over several times before they stopped.
Dorothy nearly went with them, but she was holding fast to the iron
rail of the seat, and that saved her.  She squeezed the kitten, though,
until it screeched; and then the old cab-horse made several curious
sounds that led the little girl to suspect he was laughing at them all.




10.  The Braided Man of Pyramid Mountain


The mountain before them was shaped like a cone and was so tall that
its point was lost in the clouds.  Directly facing the place where Jim
had stopped was an arched opening leading to a broad stairway.  The
stairs were cut in the rock inside the mountain, and they were broad
and not very steep, because they circled around like a cork-screw, and
at the arched opening where the flight began the circle was quite big.
At the foot of the stairs was a sign reading:

WARNING.  These steps lead to the Land of the Gargoyles.  DANGER!  KEEP
OUT.


"I wonder how Jim is ever going to draw the buggy up so many stairs,"
said Dorothy, gravely.

"No trouble at all," declared the horse, with a contemptuous neigh.
"Still, I don't care to drag any passengers.  You'll all have to walk."

"Suppose the stairs get steeper?" suggested Zeb, doubtfully.

"Then you'll have to boost the buggy-wheels, that's all," answered Jim.

"We'll try it, anyway," said the Wizard.  "It's the only way to get out
of the Valley of Voe."

So they began to ascend the stairs, Dorothy and the Wizard first, Jim
next, drawing the buggy, and then Zeb to watch that nothing happened to
the harness.

The light was dim, and soon they mounted into total darkness, so that
the Wizard was obliged to get out his lanterns to light the way.  But
this enabled them to proceed steadily until they came to a landing
where there was a rift in the side of the mountain that let in both
light and air.  Looking through this opening they could see the Valley
of Voe lying far below them, the cottages seeming like toy houses from
that distance.

After resting a few moments they resumed their climb, and still the
stairs were broad and low enough for Jim to draw the buggy easily after
him.  The old horse panted a little, and had to stop often to get his
breath.  At such times they were all glad to wait for him, for
continually climbing up stairs is sure to make one's legs ache.

They wound about, always going upward, for some time.  The lights from
the lanterns dimly showed the way, but it was a gloomy journey, and
they were pleased when a broad streak of light ahead assured them they
were coming to a second landing.

Here one side of the mountain had a great hole in it, like the mouth of
a cavern, and the stairs stopped at the near edge of the floor and
commenced ascending again at the opposite edge.

The opening in the mountain was on the side opposite to the Valley of
Voe, and our travellers looked out upon a strange scene.  Below them
was a vast space, at the bottom of which was a black sea with rolling
billows, through which little tongues of flame constantly shot up.
Just above them, and almost on a level with their platform, were banks
of rolling clouds which constantly shifted position and changed color.
The blues and greys were very beautiful, and Dorothy noticed that on
the cloud banks sat or reclined fleecy, shadowy forms of beautiful
beings who must have been the Cloud Fairies.  Mortals who stand upon
the earth and look up at the sky cannot often distinguish these forms,
but our friends were now so near to the clouds that they observed the
dainty fairies very clearly.

"Are they real?" asked Zeb, in an awed voice.

"Of course," replied Dorothy, softly.  "They are the Cloud Fairies."

"They seem like open-work," remarked the boy, gazing intently.  "If I
should squeeze one, there wouldn't be anything left of it."

In the open space between the clouds and the black, bubbling sea far
beneath, could be seen an occasional strange bird winging its way
swiftly through the air.  These birds were of enormous size, and
reminded Zeb of the rocs he had read about in the Arabian Nights.  They
had fierce eyes and sharp talons and beaks, and the children hoped none
of them would venture into the cavern.

"Well, I declare!" suddenly exclaimed the little Wizard.  "What in the
world is this?"

They turned around and found a man standing on the floor in the center
of the cave, who bowed very politely when he saw he had attracted their
attention.  He was a very old man, bent nearly double; but the queerest
thing about him was his white hair and beard.  These were so long that
they reached to his feet, and both the hair and the beard were
carefully plaited into many braids, and the end of each braid fastened
with a bow of colored ribbon.

"Where did you come from?" asked Dorothy, wonderingly.

"No place at all," answered the man with the braids; "that is, not
recently.  Once I lived on top the earth, but for many years I have had
my factory in this spot--half way up Pyramid Mountain."

"Are we only half way up?" enquired the boy, in a discouraged tone.

"I believe so, my lad," replied the braided man.  "But as I have never
been in either direction, down or up, since I arrived, I cannot be
positive whether it is exactly half way or not."

"Have you a factory in this place?" asked the Wizard, who had been
examining the strange personage carefully.

"To be sure," said the other.  "I am a great inventor, you must know,
and I manufacture my products in this lonely spot."

"What are your products?" enquired the Wizard.

"Well, I make Assorted Flutters for flags and bunting, and a superior
grade of Rustles for ladies' silk gowns."

"I thought so," said the Wizard, with a sigh.  "May we examine some of
these articles?"

"Yes, indeed; come into my shop, please," and the braided man turned
and led the way into a smaller cave, where he evidently lived.  Here,
on a broad shelf, were several card-board boxes of various sizes, each
tied with cotton cord.

"This," said the man, taking up a box and handling it gently, "contains
twelve dozen rustles--enough to last any lady a year.  Will you buy
it, my dear?" he asked, addressing Dorothy.

"My gown isn't silk," she said, smiling.

"Never mind.  When you open the box the rustles will escape, whether
you are wearing a silk dress or not," said the man, seriously.  Then he
picked up another box.  "In this," he continued, "are many assorted
flutters.  They are invaluable to make flags flutter on a still day,
when there is no wind.  You, sir," turning to the Wizard, "ought to
have this assortment.  Once you have tried my goods I am sure you will
never be without them."

"I have no money with me," said the Wizard, evasively.

"I do not want money," returned the braided man, "for I could not spend
it in this deserted place if I had it.  But I would like very much a
blue hair-ribbon.  You will notice my braids are tied with yellow,
pink, brown, red, green, white and black; but I have no blue ribbons."

"I'll get you one!" cried Dorothy, who was sorry for the poor man; so
she ran back to the buggy and took from her suit-case a pretty blue
ribbon.  It did her good to see how the braided man's eyes sparkled
when he received this treasure.

"You have made me very, very happy, my dear!" he exclaimed; and then he
insisted on the Wizard taking the box of flutters and the little girl
accepting the box of rustles.

"You may need them, some time," he said, "and there is really no use in
my manufacturing these things unless somebody uses them."

"Why did you leave the surface of the earth?" enquired the Wizard.

"I could not help it.  It is a sad story, but if you will try to
restrain your tears I will tell you about it.  On earth I was a
manufacturer of Imported Holes for American Swiss Cheese, and I will
acknowledge that I supplied a superior article, which was in great
demand.  Also I made pores for porous plasters and high-grade holes for
doughnuts and buttons.  Finally I invented a new Adjustable Post-hole,
which I thought would make my fortune.  I manufactured a large quantity
of these post-holes, and having no room in which to store them I set
them all end to end and put the top one in the ground.  That made an
extraordinary long hole, as you may imagine, and reached far down into
the earth; and, as I leaned over it to try to see to the bottom, I lost
my balance and tumbled in.  Unfortunately, the hole led directly into
the vast space you see outside this mountain; but I managed to catch a
point of rock that projected from this cavern, and so saved myself from
tumbling headlong into the black waves beneath, where the tongues of
flame that dart out would certainly have consumed me.  Here, then, I
made my home; and although it is a lonely place I amuse myself making
rustles and flutters, and so get along very nicely."

When the braided man had completed this strange tale Dorothy nearly
laughed, because it was all so absurd; but the Wizard tapped his
forehead significantly, to indicate that he thought the poor man was
crazy.  So they politely bade him good day, and went back to the outer
cavern to resume their journey.




11.  They Meet the Wooden Gargoyles


Another breathless climb brought our adventurers to a third landing
where there was a rift in the mountain.  On peering out all they could
see was rolling banks of clouds, so thick that they obscured all else.

But the travellers were obliged to rest, and while they were sitting on
the rocky floor the Wizard felt in his pocket and brought out the nine
tiny piglets.  To his delight they were now plainly visible, which
proved that they had passed beyond the influence of the magical Valley
of Voe.

"Why, we can see each other again!" cried one, joyfully.

"Yes," sighed Eureka; "and I also can see you again, and the sight
makes me dreadfully hungry.  Please, Mr. Wizard, may I eat just one of
the fat little piglets?  You'd never miss ONE of them, I'm sure!"

"What a horrid, savage beast!" exclaimed a piglet; "and after we've
been such good friends, too, and played with one another!"

"When I'm not hungry, I love to play with you all," said the kitten,
demurely; "but when my stomach is empty it seems that nothing would
fill it so nicely as a fat piglet."

"And we trusted you so!" said another of the nine, reproachfully.

"And thought you were respectable!" said another.

"It seems we were mistaken," declared a third, looking at the kitten
timorously, "no one with such murderous desires should belong to our
party, I'm sure."

"You see, Eureka," remarked Dorothy, reprovingly, "you are making
yourself disliked.  There are certain things proper for a kitten to
eat; but I never heard of a kitten eating a pig, under ANY cir'stances."

"Did you ever see such little pigs before?" asked the kitten.  "They
are no bigger than mice, and I'm sure mice are proper for me to eat."

"It isn't the bigness, dear; its the variety," replied the girl.
"These are Mr. Wizard's pets, just as you are my pet, and it wouldn't
be any more proper for you to eat them than it would be for Jim to eat
you."

"And that's just what I shall do if you don't let those little balls of
pork alone," said Jim, glaring at the kitten with his round, big eyes.
"If you injure any one of them I'll chew you up instantly."

The kitten looked at the horse thoughtfully, as if trying to decide
whether he meant it or not.

"In that case," she said, "I'll leave them alone.  You haven't many
teeth left, Jim, but the few you have are sharp enough to make me
shudder.  So the piglets will be perfectly safe, hereafter, as far as I
am concerned."

"That is right, Eureka," remarked the Wizard, earnestly.  "Let us all
be a happy family and love one another."

Eureka yawned and stretched herself.

"I've always loved the piglets," she said; "but they don't love me."

"No one can love a person he's afraid of," asserted Dorothy.  "If you
behave, and don't scare the little pigs, I'm sure they'll grow very
fond of you."

The Wizard now put the nine tiny ones back into his pocket and the
journey was resumed.

"We must be pretty near the top, now," said the boy, as they climbed
wearily up the dark, winding stairway.

"The Country of the Gurgles can't be far from the top of the earth,"
remarked Dorothy.  "It isn't very nice down here.  I'd like to get home
again, I'm sure."

No one replied to this, because they found they needed all their breath
for the climb.  The stairs had become narrower and Zeb and the Wizard
often had to help Jim pull the buggy from one step to another, or keep
it from jamming against the rocky walls.

At last, however, a dim light appeared ahead of them, which grew
clearer and stronger as they advanced.

"Thank goodness we're nearly there!" panted the little Wizard.

Jim, who was in advance, saw the last stair before him and stuck his
head above the rocky sides of the stairway.  Then he halted, ducked
down and began to back up, so that he nearly fell with the buggy onto
the others.

"Let's go down again!" he said, in his hoarse voice.

"Nonsense!" snapped the tired Wizard.  "What's the matter with you, old
man?"

"Everything," grumbled the horse.  "I've taken a look at this place,
and it's no fit country for real creatures to go to.  Everything's
dead, up there--no flesh or blood or growing thing anywhere."

"Never mind; we can't turn back," said Dorothy; "and we don't intend to
stay there, anyhow."

"It's dangerous," growled Jim, in a stubborn tone.

"See here, my good steed," broke in the Wizard, "little Dorothy and I
have been in many queer countries in our travels, and always escaped
without harm.  We've even been to the marvelous Land of Oz--haven't we,
Dorothy?--so we don't much care what the Country of the Gargoyles is
like.  Go ahead, Jim, and whatever happens we'll make the best of it."

"All right," answered the horse; "this is your excursion, and not mine;
so if you get into trouble don't blame me."

With this speech he bent forward and dragged the buggy up the remaining
steps.  The others followed and soon they were all standing upon a
broad platform and gazing at the most curious and startling sight their
eyes had ever beheld.

"The Country of the Gargoyles is all wooden!" exclaimed Zeb; and so it
was.  The ground was sawdust and the pebbles scattered around were hard
knots from trees, worn smooth in course of time.  There were odd wooden
houses, with carved wooden flowers in the front yards.  The tree-trunks
were of coarse wood, but the leaves of the trees were shavings.  The
patches of grass were splinters of wood, and where neither grass nor
sawdust showed was a solid wooden flooring.  Wooden birds fluttered
among the trees and wooden cows were browsing upon the wooden grass;
but the most amazing things of all were the wooden people--the
creatures known as Gargoyles.

These were very numerous, for the place was thickly inhabited, and a
large group of the queer people clustered near, gazing sharply upon the
strangers who had emerged from the long spiral stairway.

The Gargoyles were very small of stature, being less than three feet in
height.  Their bodies were round, their legs short and thick and their
arms extraordinarily long and stout.  Their heads were too big for
their bodies and their faces were decidedly ugly to look upon.  Some
had long, curved noses and chins, small eyes and wide, grinning mouths.
Others had flat noses, protruding eyes, and ears that were shaped like
those of an elephant.  There were many types, indeed, scarcely two
being alike; but all were equally disagreeable in appearance.  The tops
of their heads had no hair, but were carved into a variety of fantastic
shapes, some having a row of points or balls around the top, others
designs resembling flowers or vegetables, and still others having
squares that looked like waffles cut criss-cross on their heads.  They
all wore short wooden wings which were fastened to their wooden bodies
by means of wooden hinges with wooden screws, and with these wings they
flew swiftly and noiselessly here and there, their legs being of little
use to them.

This noiseless motion was one of the most peculiar things about the
Gargoyles.  They made no sounds at all, either in flying or trying to
speak, and they conversed mainly by means of quick signals made with
their wooden fingers or lips.  Neither was there any sound to be heard
anywhere throughout the wooden country.  The birds did not sing, nor
did the cows moo; yet there was more than ordinary activity everywhere.

The group of these queer creatures which was discovered clustered near
the stairs at first remained staring and motionless, glaring with evil
eyes at the intruders who had so suddenly appeared in their land.  In
turn the Wizard and the children, the horse and the kitten, examined
the Gargoyles with the same silent attention.

"There's going to be trouble, I'm sure," remarked the horse.  "Unhitch
those tugs, Zeb, and set me free from the buggy, so I can fight
comfortably."

"Jim's right," sighed the Wizard.  "There's going to be trouble, and my
sword isn't stout enough to cut up those wooden bodies--so I shall have
to get out my revolvers."

He got his satchel from the buggy and, opening it, took out two deadly
looking revolvers that made the children shrink back in alarm just to
look at.

"What harm can the Gurgles do?" asked Dorothy.  "They have no weapons
to hurt us with."

"Each of their arms is a wooden club," answered the little man, "and
I'm sure the creatures mean mischief, by the looks of their eyes.  Even
these revolvers can merely succeed in damaging a few of their wooden
bodies, and after that we will be at their mercy."

"But why fight at all, in that case?" asked the girl.

"So I may die with a clear conscience," returned the Wizard, gravely.
"It's every man's duty to do the best he knows how; and I'm going to do
it."

"Wish I had an axe," said Zeb, who by now had unhitched the horse.

"If we had known we were coming we might have brought along several
other useful things," responded the Wizard.  "But we dropped into this
adventure rather unexpectedly."

The Gargoyles had backed away a distance when they heard the sound of
talking, for although our friends had spoken in low tones their words
seemed loud in the silence surrounding them.  But as soon as the
conversation ceased, the grinning, ugly creatures arose in a flock and
flew swiftly toward the strangers, their long arms stretched out before
them like the bowsprits of a fleet of sail-boats.  The horse had
especially attracted their notice, because it was the biggest and
strangest creature they had ever seen; so it became the center of their
first attack.

But Jim was ready for them, and when he saw them coming he turned his
heels toward them and began kicking out as hard as he could.  Crack!
crash! bang! went his iron-shod hoofs against the wooden bodies of the
Gargoyles, and they were battered right and left with such force that
they scattered like straws in the wind.  But the noise and clatter
seemed as dreadful to them as Jim's heels, for all who were able
swiftly turned and flew away to a great distance.  The others picked
themselves up from the ground one by one and quickly rejoined their
fellows, so for a moment the horse thought he had won the fight with
ease.

But the Wizard was not so confident.

"Those wooden things are impossible to hurt," he said, "and all the
damage Jim has done to them is to knock a few splinters from their
noses and ears.  That cannot make them look any uglier, I'm sure, and
it is my opinion they will soon renew the attack."

"What made them fly away?" asked Dorothy.

"The noise, of course.  Don't you remember how the Champion escaped
them by shouting his battle-cry?"

"Suppose we escape down the stairs, too," suggested the boy.  "We have
time, just now, and I'd rather face the invis'ble bears than those
wooden imps."

"No," returned Dorothy, stoutly, "it won't do to go back, for then we
would never get home.  Let's fight it out."

"That is what I advise," said the Wizard.  "They haven't defeated us
yet, and Jim is worth a whole army."

But the Gargoyles were clever enough not to attack the horse the next
time.  They advanced in a great swarm, having been joined by many more
of their kind, and they flew straight over Jim's head to where the
others were standing.

The Wizard raised one of his revolvers and fired into the throng of his
enemies, and the shot resounded like a clap of thunder in that silent
place.

Some of the wooden beings fell flat upon the ground, where they
quivered and trembled in every limb; but most of them managed to wheel
and escape again to a distance.

Zeb ran and picked up one of the Gargoyles that lay nearest to him.
The top of its head was carved into a crown and the Wizard's bullet had
struck it exactly in the left eye, which was a hard wooden knot.  Half
of the bullet stuck in the wood and half stuck out, so it had been the
jar and the sudden noise that had knocked the creature down, more than
the fact that it was really hurt.  Before this crowned Gargoyle had
recovered himself Zeb had wound a strap several times around its body,
confining its wings and arms so that it could not move.  Then, having
tied the wooden creature securely, the boy buckled the strap and tossed
his prisoner into the buggy.  By that time the others had all retired.




12.  A Wonderful Escape


For a while the enemy hesitated to renew the attack.  Then a few of
them advanced until another shot from the Wizard's revolver made them
retreat.

"That's fine," said Zeb.  "We've got 'em on the run now, sure enough."

"But only for a time," replied the Wizard, shaking his head gloomily.
"These revolvers are good for six shots each, but when those are gone
we shall be helpless."

The Gargoyles seemed to realize this, for they sent a few of their band
time after time to attack the strangers and draw the fire from the
little man's revolvers.  In this way none of them was shocked by the
dreadful report more than once, for the main band kept far away and
each time a new company was sent into the battle.  When the Wizard had
fired all of his twelve bullets he had caused no damage to the enemy
except to stun a few by the noise, and so be as no nearer to victory
than in the beginning of the fray.

"What shall we do now?" asked Dorothy, anxiously.

"Let's yell--all together," said Zeb.

"And fight at the same time," added the Wizard.  "We will get near Jim,
so that he can help us, and each one must take some weapon and do the
best he can.  I'll use my sword, although it isn't much account in this
affair.  Dorothy must take her parasol and open it suddenly when the
wooden folks attack her.  I haven't anything for you, Zeb."

"I'll use the king," said the boy, and pulled his prisoner out of the
buggy.  The bound Gargoyle's arms extended far out beyond its head, so
by grasping its wrists Zeb found the king made a very good club.  The
boy was strong for one of his years, having always worked upon a farm;
so he was likely to prove more dangerous to the enemy than the Wizard.

When the next company of Gargoyles advanced, our adventurers began
yelling as if they had gone mad.  Even the kitten gave a dreadfully
shrill scream and at the same time Jim the cab-horse neighed loudly.
This daunted the enemy for a time, but the defenders were soon out of
breath.  Perceiving this, as well as the fact that there were no more
of the awful "bangs" to come from the revolvers, the Gargoyles advanced
in a swarm as thick as bees, so that the air was filled with them.

Dorothy squatted upon the ground and put up her parasol, which nearly
covered her and proved a great protection.  The Wizard's sword-blade
snapped into a dozen pieces at the first blow he struck against the
wooden people.  Zeb pounded away with the Gargoyle he was using as a
club until he had knocked down dozens of foes; but at the last they
clustered so thickly about him that he no longer had room in which to
swing his arms.  The horse performed some wonderful kicking and even
Eureka assisted when she leaped bodily upon the Gargoyles and scratched
and bit at them like a wild-cat.

But all this bravery amounted to nothing at all.  The wooden things
wound their long arms around Zeb and the Wizard and held them fast.
Dorothy was captured in the same way, and numbers of the Gargoyles
clung to Jim's legs, so weighting him down that the poor beast was
helpless.  Eureka made a desperate dash to escape and scampered along
the ground like a streak; but a grinning Gargoyle flew after her and
grabbed her before she had gone very far.

All of them expected nothing less than instant death; but to their
surprise the wooden creatures flew into the air with them and bore them
far away, over miles and miles of wooden country, until they came to a
wooden city.  The houses of this city had many corners, being square
and six-sided and eight-sided.  They were tower-like in shape and the
best of them seemed old and weather-worn; yet all were strong and
substantial.

To one of these houses which had neither doors nor windows, but only
one broad opening far up underneath the roof, the prisoners were
brought by their captors.  The Gargoyles roughly pushed them into the
opening, where there was a platform, and then flew away and left them.
As they had no wings the strangers could not fly away, and if they
jumped down from such a height they would surely be killed.  The
creatures had sense enough to reason that way, and the only mistake
they made was in supposing the earth people were unable to overcome
such ordinary difficulties.

Jim was brought with the others, although it took a good many Gargoyles
to carry the big beast through the air and land him on the high
platform, and the buggy was thrust in after him because it belonged to
the party and the wooden folks had no idea what it was used for or
whether it was alive or not.  When Eureka's captor had thrown the
kitten after the others the last Gargoyle silently disappeared, leaving
our friends to breathe freely once more.

"What an awful fight!" said Dorothy, catching her breath in little
gasps.

"Oh, I don't know," purred Eureka, smoothing her ruffled fur with her
paw; "we didn't manage to hurt anybody, and nobody managed to hurt us."

"Thank goodness we are together again, even if we are prisoners,"
sighed the little girl.

"I wonder why they didn't kill us on the spot," remarked Zeb, who had
lost his king in the struggle.

"They are probably keeping us for some ceremony," the Wizard answered,
reflectively; "but there is no doubt they intend to kill us as dead as
possible in a short time."

"As dead as poss'ble would be pretty dead, wouldn't it?" asked Dorothy.

"Yes, my dear.  But we have no need to worry about that just now.  Let
us examine our prison and see what it is like."

The space underneath the roof, where they stood, permitted them to see
on all sides of the tall building, and they looked with much curiosity
at the city spread out beneath them.  Everything visible was made of
wood, and the scene seemed stiff and extremely unnatural.

From their platform a stair descended into the house, and the children
and the Wizard explored it after lighting a lantern to show them the
way.  Several stories of empty rooms rewarded their search, but nothing
more;  so after a time they came back to the platform again.  Had there
been any doors or windows in the lower rooms, or had not the boards of
the house been so thick and stout, escape could have been easy; but to
remain down below was like being in a cellar or the hold of a ship, and
they did not like the darkness or the damp smell.

In this country, as in all others they had visited underneath the
earth's surface, there was no night, a constant and strong light coming
from some unknown source.  Looking out, they could see into some of the
houses near them, where there were open windows in abundance, and were
able to mark the forms of the wooden Gargoyles moving about in their
dwellings.

"This seems to be their time of rest," observed the Wizard.  "All
people need rest, even if they are made of wood, and as there is no
night here they select a certain time of the day in which to sleep or
doze."

"I feel sleepy myself," remarked Zeb, yawning.

"Why, where's Eureka?" cried Dorothy, suddenly.

They all looked around, but the kitten was no place to be seen.

"She's gone out for a walk," said Jim, gruffly.

"Where?  On the roof?" asked the girl.

"No; she just dug her claws into the wood and climbed down the sides of
this house to the ground."

"She couldn't climb DOWN, Jim," said Dorothy.  "To climb means to go
up."

"Who said so?" demanded the horse.

"My school-teacher said so; and she knows a lot, Jim."

"To 'climb down' is sometimes used as a figure of speech," remarked the
Wizard.

"Well, this was a figure of a cat," said Jim, "and she WENT down,
anyhow, whether she climbed or crept."

"Dear me! how careless Eureka is," exclaimed the girl, much distressed.
"The Gurgles will get her, sure!"

"Ha, ha!" chuckled the old cab-horse; "they're not 'Gurgles,' little
maid; they're Gargoyles."

"Never mind; they'll get Eureka, whatever they're called."

"No they won't," said the voice of the kitten, and Eureka herself
crawled over the edge of the platform and sat down quietly upon the
floor.

"Wherever have you been, Eureka?" asked Dorothy, sternly.

"Watching the wooden folks.  They're too funny for anything, Dorothy.
Just now they are all going to bed, and--what do you think?--they
unhook the hinges of their wings and put them in a corner until they
wake up again."

"What, the hinges?"

"No; the wings."

"That," said Zeb, "explains why this house is used by them for a
prison.  If any of the Gargoyles act badly, and have to be put in jail,
they are brought here and their wings unhooked and taken away from them
until they promise to be good."

The Wizard had listened intently to what Eureka had said.

"I wish we had some of those loose wings," he said.

"Could we fly with them?" asked Dorothy.

"I think so.  If the Gargoyles can unhook the wings then the power to
fly lies in the wings themselves, and not in the wooden bodies of the
people who wear them.  So, if we had the wings, we could probably fly
as well as they do--as least while we are in their country and under
the spell of its magic."

"But how would it help us to be able to fly?" questioned the girl.

"Come here," said the little man, and took her to one of the corners of
the building.  "Do you see that big rock standing on the hillside
yonder?" he continued, pointing with his finger.

"Yes; it's a good way off, but I can see it," she replied.

"Well, inside that rock, which reaches up into the clouds, is an
archway very much like the one we entered when we climbed the spiral
stairway from the Valley of Voe.  I'll get my spy-glass, and then you
can see it more plainly."

He fetched a small but powerful telescope, which had been in his
satchel, and by its aid the little girl clearly saw the opening.

"Where does it lead to?" she asked.

"That I cannot tell," said the Wizard; "but we cannot now be far below
the earth's surface, and that entrance may lead to another stairway
that will bring us on top of our world again, where we belong.  So, if
we had the wings, and could escape the Gargoyles, we might fly to that
rock and be saved."

"I'll get you the wings," said Zeb, who had thoughtfully listened to
all this.  "That is, if the kitten will show me where they are."

"But how can you get down?" enquired the girl, wonderingly.

For answer Zeb began to unfasten Jim's harness, strap by strap, and to
buckle one piece to another until he had made a long leather strip that
would reach to the ground.

"I can climb down that, all right," he said.

"No you can't," remarked Jim, with a twinkle in his round eyes.  "You
may GO down, but you can only CLIMB up."

"Well, I'll climb up when I get back, then," said the boy, with a
laugh.  "Now, Eureka, you'll have to show me the way to those wings."

"You must be very quiet," warned the kitten; "for if you make the least
noise the Gargoyles will wake up.  They can hear a pin drop."

"I'm not going to drop a pin," said Zeb.

He had fastened one end of the strap to a wheel of the buggy, and now
he let the line dangle over the side of the house.

"Be careful," cautioned Dorothy, earnestly.

"I will," said the boy, and let himself slide over the edge.

The girl and the Wizard leaned over and watched Zeb work his way
carefully downward, hand over hand, until he stood upon the ground
below.  Eureka clung with her claws to the wooden side of the house and
let herself down easily.  Then together they crept away to enter the
low doorway of a neighboring dwelling.

The watchers waited in breathless suspense until the boy again
appeared, his arms now full of the wooden wings.

When he came to where the strap was hanging he tied the wings all in a
bunch to the end of the line, and the Wizard drew them up.  Then the
line was let down again for Zeb to climb up by.  Eureka quickly
followed him, and soon they were all standing together upon the
platform, with eight of the much prized wooden wings beside them.

The boy was no longer sleepy, but full of energy and excitement.  He
put the harness together again and hitched Jim to the buggy.  Then,
with the Wizard's help, he tried to fasten some of the wings to the old
cab-horse.

This was no easy task, because half of each one of the hinges of the
wings was missing, it being still fastened to the body of the Gargoyle
who had used it.  However, the Wizard went once more to his
satchel--which seemed to contain a surprising variety of odds and
ends--and brought out a spool of strong wire, by means of which they
managed to fasten four of the wings to Jim's harness, two near his head
and two near his tail.  They were a bit wiggley, but secure enough if
only the harness held together.

The other four wings were then fastened to the buggy, two on each side,
for the buggy must bear the weight of the children and the Wizard as it
flew through the air.

These preparations had not consumed a great deal of time, but the
sleeping Gargoyles were beginning to wake up and move around, and soon
some of them would be hunting for their missing wings.  So the
prisoners resolved to leave their prison at once.

They mounted into the buggy, Dorothy holding Eureka safe in her lap.
The girl sat in the middle of the seat, with Zeb and the Wizard on each
side of her.  When all was ready the boy shook the reins and said:

"Fly away, Jim!"

"Which wings must I flop first?" asked the cab-horse, undecidedly.

"Flop them all together," suggested the Wizard.

"Some of them are crooked," objected the horse.

"Never mind; we will steer with the wings on the buggy," said Zeb.
"Just you light out and make for that rock, Jim; and don't waste any
time about it, either."

So the horse gave a groan, flopped its four wings all together, and
flew away from the platform.  Dorothy was a little anxious about the
success of their trip, for the way Jim arched his long neck and spread
out his bony legs as he fluttered and floundered through the air was
enough to make anybody nervous.  He groaned, too, as if frightened, and
the wings creaked dreadfully because the Wizard had forgotten to oil
them; but they kept fairly good time with the wings of the buggy, so
that they made excellent progress from the start.  The only thing that
anyone could complain of with justice was the fact that they wobbled
first up and then down, as if the road were rocky instead of being as
smooth as the air could make it.

The main point, however, was that they flew, and flew swiftly, if a bit
unevenly, toward the rock for which they had headed.

Some of the Gargoyles saw them, presently, and lost no time in
collecting a band to pursue the escaping prisoners; so that when
Dorothy happened to look back she saw them coming in a great cloud that
almost darkened the sky.




13.  The Den of the Dragonettes


Our friends had a good start and were able to maintain it, for with
their eight wings they could go just as fast as could the Gargoyles.
All the way to the great rock the wooden people followed them, and when
Jim finally alighted at the mouth of the cavern the pursuers were still
some distance away.

"But, I'm afraid they'll catch us yet," said Dorothy, greatly excited.

"No; we must stop them," declared the Wizard.  "Quick Zeb, help me pull
off these wooden wings!"

They tore off the wings, for which they had no further use, and the
Wizard piled them in a heap just outside the entrance to the cavern.
Then he poured over them all the kerosene oil that was left in his
oil-can, and lighting a match set fire to the pile.

The flames leaped up at once and the bonfire began to smoke and roar
and crackle just as the great army of wooden Gargoyles arrived.  The
creatures drew back at once, being filled with fear and horror; for
such as dreadful thing as a fire they had never before known in all the
history of their wooden land.

Inside the archway were several doors, leading to different rooms built
into the mountain, and Zeb and the Wizard lifted these wooden doors
from their hinges and tossed them all on the flames.

"That will prove a barrier for some time to come," said the little man,
smiling pleasantly all over his wrinkled face at the success of their
stratagem.  "Perhaps the flames will set fire to all that miserable
wooden country, and if it does the loss will be very small and the
Gargoyles never will be missed.  But come, my children; let us explore
the mountain and discover which way we must go in order to escape from
this cavern, which is getting to be almost as hot as a bake-oven."

To their disappointment there was within this mountain no regular
flight of steps by means of which they could mount to the earth's
surface.  A sort of inclined tunnel led upward for a way, and they
found the floor of it both rough and steep.  Then a sudden turn brought
them to a narrow gallery where the buggy could not pass.  This delayed
and bothered them for a while, because they did not wish to leave the
buggy behind them.  It carried their baggage and was useful to ride in
wherever there were good roads, and since it had accompanied them so
far in their travels they felt it their duty to preserve it.  So Zeb
and the Wizard set to work and took off the wheels and the top, and
then they put the buggy edgewise, so it would take up the smallest
space.  In this position they managed, with the aid of the patient
cab-horse, to drag the vehicle through the narrow part of the passage.
It was not a great distance, fortunately, and when the path grew
broader they put the buggy together again and proceeded more
comfortably.  But the road was nothing more than a series of rifts or
cracks in the mountain, and it went zig-zag in every direction,
slanting first up and then down until they were puzzled as to whether
they were any nearer to the top of the earth than when they had
started, hours before.

"Anyhow," said Dorothy, "we've 'scaped those awful Gurgles, and that's
ONE comfort!"

"Probably the Gargoyles are still busy trying to put out the fire,"
returned the Wizard.  "But even if they succeeded in doing that it
would be very difficult for them to fly amongst these rocks; so I am
sure we need fear them no longer."

Once in a while they would come to a deep crack in the floor, which
made the way quite dangerous; but there was still enough oil in the
lanterns to give them light, and the cracks were not so wide but that
they were able to jump over them.  Sometimes they had to climb over
heaps of loose rock, where Jim could scarcely drag the buggy.  At such
times Dorothy, Zeb and the Wizard all pushed behind, and lifted the
wheels over the roughest places; so they managed, by dint of hard work,
to keep going.  But the little party was both weary and discouraged
when at last, on turning a sharp corner, the wanderers found themselves
in a vast cave arching high over their heads and having a smooth, level
floor.

The cave was circular in shape, and all around its edge, near to the
ground, appeared groups of dull yellow lights, two of them being always
side by side.  These were motionless at first, but soon began to
flicker more brightly and to sway slowly from side to side and then up
and down.

"What sort of place is this?" asked the boy, trying to see more clearly
through the gloom.

"I cannot imagine, I'm sure," answered the Wizard, also peering about.

"Woogh!" snarled Eureka, arching her back until her hair stood straight
on end; "it's den of alligators, or crocodiles, or some other dreadful
creatures!  Don't you see their terrible eyes?"

"Eureka sees better in the dark than we can," whispered Dorothy.  "Tell
us, dear, what do the creatures look like?" she asked, addressing her
pet.

"I simply can't describe 'em," answered the kitten, shuddering.  "Their
eyes are like pie-plates and their mouths like coal-scuttles.  But
their bodies don't seem very big."

"Where are they?" enquired the girl.

"They are in little pockets all around the edge of this cavern.  Oh,
Dorothy--you can't imagine what horrid things they are!  They're uglier
than the Gargoyles."

"Tut-tut! be careful how you criticise your neighbors," spoke a rasping
voice near by.  "As a matter of fact you are rather ugly-looking
creatures yourselves, and I'm sure mother has often told us we were the
loveliest and prettiest things in all the world."

Hearing these words our friends turned in the direction of the sound,
and the Wizard held his lanterns so that their light would flood one of
the little pockets in the rock.

"Why, it's a dragon!" he exclaimed.

"No," answered the owner of the big yellow eyes which were blinking at
them so steadily; "you are wrong about that.  We hope to grow to be
dragons some day, but just now we're only dragonettes."

"What's that?" asked Dorothy, gazing fearfully at the great scaley
head, the yawning mouth and the big eyes.

"Young dragons, of course; but we are not allowed to call ourselves
real dragons until we get our full growth," was the reply.  "The big
dragons are very proud, and don't think children amount to much; but
mother says that some day we will all be very powerful and important."

"Where is your mother?" asked the Wizard, anxiously looking around.

"She has gone up to the top of the earth to hunt for our dinner.  If
she has good luck she will bring us an elephant, or a brace of
rhinoceri, or perhaps a few dozen people to stay our hunger."

"Oh; are you hungry?" enquired Dorothy, drawing back.

"Very," said the dragonette, snapping its jaws.

"And--and--do you eat people?"

"To be sure, when we can get them.  But they've been very scarce for a
few years and we usually have to be content with elephants or
buffaloes," answered the creature, in a regretful tone.

"How old are you?" enquired Zeb, who stared at the yellow eyes as if
fascinated.

"Quite young, I grieve to say; and all of my brothers and sisters that
you see here are practically my own age.  If I remember rightly, we
were sixty-six years old the day before yesterday."

"But that isn't young!" cried Dorothy, in amazement.

"No?" drawled the dragonette; "it seems to me very babyish."

"How old is your mother?" asked the girl.

"Mother's about two thousand years old; but she carelessly lost track
of her age a few centuries ago and skipped several hundreds.  She's a
little fussy, you know, and afraid of growing old, being a widow and
still in her prime."

"I should think she would be," agreed Dorothy.  Then, after a moment's
thought, she asked:  "Are we friends or enemies?  I mean, will you be
good to us, or do you intend to eat us?"

"As for that, we dragonettes would love to eat you, my child; but
unfortunately mother has tied all our tails around the rocks at the
back of our individual caves, so that we can not crawl out to get you.
If you choose to come nearer we will make a mouthful of you in a wink;
but unless you do you will remain quite safe."

There was a regretful accent in the creature's voice, and at the words
all the other dragonettes sighed dismally.

Dorothy felt relieved.  Presently she asked:

"Why did your mother tie your tails?"

"Oh, she is sometimes gone for several weeks on her hunting trips, and
if we were not tied we would crawl all over the mountain and fight with
each other and get into a lot of mischief.  Mother usually knows what
she is about, but she made a mistake this time; for you are sure to
escape us unless you come too near, and you probably won't do that."

"No, indeed!" said the little girl.  "We don't wish to be eaten by such
awful beasts."

"Permit me to say," returned the dragonette, "that you are rather
impolite to call us names, knowing that we cannot resent your insults.
We consider ourselves very beautiful in appearance, for mother has told
us so, and she knows.  And we are of an excellent family and have a
pedigree that I challenge any humans to equal, as it extends back about
twenty thousand years, to the time of the famous Green Dragon of
Atlantis, who lived in a time when humans had not yet been created.
Can you match that pedigree, little girl?"

"Well," said Dorothy, "I was born on a farm in Kansas, and I guess
that's being just as 'spectable and haughty as living in a cave with
your tail tied to a rock.  If it isn't I'll have to stand it, that's
all."

"Tastes differ," murmured the dragonette, slowly drooping its scaley
eyelids over its yellow eyes, until they looked like half-moons.

Being reassured by the fact that the creatures could not crawl out of
their rock-pockets, the children and the Wizard now took time to
examine them more closely.  The heads of the dragonettes were as big as
barrels and covered with hard, greenish scales that glittered brightly
under the light of the lanterns.  Their front legs, which grew just
back of their heads, were also strong and big; but their bodies were
smaller around than their heads, and dwindled away in a long line until
their tails were slim as a shoe-string.  Dorothy thought, if it had
taken them sixty-six years to grow to this size, that it would be fully
a hundred years more before they could hope to call themselves dragons,
and that seemed like a good while to wait to grow up.

"It occurs to me," said the Wizard, "that we ought to get out of this
place before the mother dragon comes back."

"Don't hurry," called one of the dragonettes; "mother will be glad to
meet you, I'm sure."

"You may be right," replied the Wizard, "but we're a little particular
about associating with strangers.  Will you kindly tell us which way
your mother went to get on top the earth?"

"That is not a fair question to ask us," declared another dragonette.
"For, if we told you truly, you might escape us altogether; and if we
told you an untruth we would be naughty and deserve to be punished."

"Then," decided Dorothy, "we must find our way out the best we can."

They circled all around the cavern, keeping a good distance away from
the blinking yellow eyes of the dragonettes, and presently discovered
that there were two paths leading from the wall opposite to the place
where they had entered.  They selected one of these at a venture and
hurried along it as fast as they could go, for they had no idea when
the mother dragon would be back and were very anxious not to make her
acquaintance.




14.  Ozma Uses the Magic Belt


For a considerable distance the way led straight upward in a gentle
incline, and the wanderers made such good progress that they grew
hopeful and eager, thinking they might see sunshine at any minute.  But
at length they came unexpectedly upon a huge rock that shut off the
passage and blocked them from proceeding a single step farther.

This rock was separate from the rest of the mountain and was in motion,
turning slowly around and around as if upon a pivot.  When first they
came to it there was a solid wall before them; but presently it
revolved until there was exposed a wide, smooth path across it to the
other side.  This appeared so unexpectedly that they were unprepared to
take advantage of it at first, and allowed the rocky wall to swing
around again before they had decided to pass over.  But they knew now
that there was a means of escape and so waited patiently until the path
appeared for the second time.

The children and the Wizard rushed across the moving rock and sprang
into the passage beyond, landing safely though a little out of breath.
Jim the cab-horse came last, and the rocky wall almost caught him; for
just as he leaped to the floor of the further passage the wall swung
across it and a loose stone that the buggy wheels knocked against fell
into the narrow crack where the rock turned, and became wedged there.

They heard a crunching, grinding sound, a loud snap, and the turn-table
came to a stop with its broadest surface shutting off the path from
which they had come.

"Never mind," said Zeb, "we don't want to get back, anyhow."

"I'm not so sure of that," returned Dorothy.  "The mother dragon may
come down and catch us here."

"It is possible," agreed the Wizard, "if this proves to be the path she
usually takes.  But I have been examining this tunnel, and I do not see
any signs of so large a beast having passed through it."

"Then we're all right," said the girl, "for if the dragon went the
other way she can't poss'bly get to us now."

"Of course not, my dear.  But there is another thing to consider.  The
mother dragon probably knows the road to the earth's surface, and if
she went the other way then we have come the wrong way," said the
Wizard, thoughtfully.

"Dear me!" cried Dorothy.  "That would be unlucky, wouldn't it?"

"Very.  Unless this passage also leads to the top of the earth," said
Zeb.  "For my part, if we manage to get out of here I'll be glad it
isn't the way the dragon goes."

"So will I," returned Dorothy.  "It's enough to have your pedigree
flung in your face by those saucy dragonettes.  No one knows what the
mother might do."

They now moved on again, creeping slowly up another steep incline.  The
lanterns were beginning to grow dim, and the Wizard poured the
remaining oil from one into the other, so that the one light would last
longer.  But their journey was almost over, for in a short time they
reached a small cave from which there was no further outlet.

They did not realize their ill fortune at first, for their hearts were
gladdened by the sight of a ray of sunshine coming through a small
crack in the roof of the cave, far overhead.  That meant that their
world--the real world--was not very far away, and that the succession
of perilous adventures they had encountered had at last brought them
near the earth's surface, which meant home to them.  But when the
adventurers looked more carefully around them they discovered that
there were in a strong prison from which there was no hope of escape.

"But we're ALMOST on earth again," cried Dorothy, "for there is the
sun--the most BEAU'FUL sun that shines!" and she pointed eagerly at the
crack in the distant roof.

"Almost on earth isn't being there," said the kitten, in a discontented
tone.  "It wouldn't be possible for even me to get up to that crack--or
through it if I got there."

"It appears that the path ends here," announced the Wizard, gloomily.

"And there is no way to go back," added Zeb, with a low whistle of
perplexity.

"I was sure it would come to this, in the end," remarked the old
cab-horse.  "Folks don't fall into the middle of the earth and then get
back again to tell of their adventures--not in real life.  And the
whole thing has been unnatural because that cat and I are both able to
talk your language, and to understand the words you say."

"And so can the nine tiny piglets," added Eureka. "Don't forget them,
for I may have to eat them, after all."

"I've heard animals talk before," said Dorothy, "and no harm came of
it."

"Were you ever before shut up in a cave, far under the earth, with no
way of getting out?" enquired the horse, seriously.

"No," answered Dorothy.  "But don't you lose heart, Jim, for I'm sure
this isn't the end of our story, by any means."

The reference to the piglets reminded the Wizard that his pets had not
enjoyed much exercise lately, and must be tired of their prison in his
pocket.  So he sat down upon the floor of the cave, brought the piglets
out one by one, and allowed them to run around as much as they pleased.

"My dears," he said to them, "I'm afraid I've got you into a lot of
trouble, and that you will never again be able to leave this gloomy
cave."

"What's wrong?" asked a piglet.  "We've been in the dark quite a while,
and you may as well explain what has happened."

The Wizard told them of the misfortune that had overtaken the wanderers.

"Well," said another piglet, "you are a wizard, are you not?"

"I am," replied the little man.

"Then you can do a few wizzes and get us out of this hole," declared
the tiny one, with much confidence.

"I could if I happened to be a real wizard," returned the master sadly.
"But I'm not, my piggy-wees; I'm a humbug wizard."

"Nonsense!" cried several of the piglets, together.

"You can ask Dorothy," said the little man, in an injured tone.

"It's true enough," returned the girl, earnestly.  "Our friend Oz is
merely a humbug wizard, for he once proved it to me.  He can do several
very wonderful things--if he knows how.  But he can't wiz a single
thing if he hasn't the tools and machinery to work with."

"Thank you, my dear, for doing me justice," responded the Wizard,
gratefully.  "To be accused of being a real wizard, when I'm not, is a
slander I will not tamely submit to.  But I am one of the greatest
humbug wizards that ever lived, and you will realize this when we have
all starved together and our bones are scattered over the floor of this
lonely cave."

"I don't believe we'll realize anything, when it comes to that,"
remarked Dorothy, who had been deep in thought.  "But I'm not going to
scatter my bones just yet, because I need them, and you prob'ly need
yours, too."

"We are helpless to escape," sighed the Wizard.

"WE may be helpless," answered Dorothy, smiling at him, "but there are
others who can do more than we can.  Cheer up, friends.  I'm sure Ozma
will help us."

"Ozma!" exclaimed the Wizard.  "Who is Ozma?"

"The girl that rules the marvelous Land of Oz," was the reply.  "She's
a friend of mine, for I met her in the Land of Ev, not long ago, and
went to Oz with her."

"For the second time?" asked the Wizard, with great interest.

"Yes.  The first time I went to Oz I found you there, ruling the
Emerald City.  After you went up in a balloon, and escaped us, I got
back to Kansas by means of a pair of magical silver shoes."

"I remember those shoes," said the little man, nodding.  "They once
belonged to the Wicked Witch.  Have you them here with you?"

"No; I lost them somewhere in the air," explained the child.  "But the
second time I went to the Land of Oz I owned the Nome King's Magic
Belt, which is much more powerful than were the Silver Shoes."

"Where is that Magic Belt?" enquired the Wizard, who had listened with
great interest.

"Ozma has it; for its powers won't work in a common, ordinary country
like the United States.  Anyone in a fairy country like the Land of Oz
can do anything with it; so I left it with my friend the Princess Ozma,
who used it to wish me in Australia with Uncle Henry."

"And were you?" asked Zeb, astonished at what he heard.

"Of course; in just a jiffy.  And Ozma has an enchanted picture hanging
in her room that shows her the exact scene where any of her friends may
be, at any time she chooses.  All she has to do is to say: 'I wonder
what So-and-so is doing,' and at once the picture shows where her
friend is and what the friend is doing.  That's REAL magic, Mr. Wizard;
isn't it?  Well, every day at four o'clock Ozma has promised to look at
me in that picture, and if I am in need of help I am to make her a
certain sign and she will put on the Nome King's Magic Belt and wish me
to be with her in Oz."

"Do you mean that Princess Ozma will see this cave in her enchanted
picture, and see all of us here, and what we are doing?" demanded Zeb.

"Of course; when it is four o'clock," she replied, with a laugh at his
startled expression.

"And when you make a sign she will bring you to her in the Land of Oz?"
continued the boy.

"That's it, exactly; by means of the Magic Belt."

"Then," said the Wizard, "you will be saved, little Dorothy; and I am
very glad of it.  The rest of us will die much more cheerfully when we
know you have escaped our sad fate."

"I won't die cheerfully!" protested the kitten.  "There's nothing
cheerful about dying that I could ever see, although they say a cat has
nine lives, and so must die nine times."

"Have you ever died yet?" enquired the boy.

"No, and I'm not anxious to begin," said Eureka.

"Don't worry, dear," Dorothy exclaimed, "I'll hold you in my arms, and
take you with me."

"Take us, too!" cried the nine tiny piglets, all in one breath.

"Perhaps I can," answered Dorothy.  "I'll try."

"Couldn't you manage to hold me in your arms?" asked the cab-horse.

Dorothy laughed.

"I'll do better than that," she promised, "for I can easily save you
all, once I am myself in the Land of Oz."

"How?" they asked.

"By using the Magic Belt.  All I need do is to wish you with me, and
there you'll be--safe in the royal palace!"

"Good!" cried Zeb.

"I built that palace, and the Emerald City, too," remarked the Wizard,
in a thoughtful tone, "and I'd like to see them again, for I was very
happy among the Munchkins and Winkies and Quadlings and Gillikins."

"Who are they?" asked the boy.

"The four nations that inhabit the Land of Oz," was the reply.  "I
wonder if they would treat me nicely if I went there again."

"Of course they would!" declared Dorothy.  "They are still proud of
their former Wizard, and often speak of you kindly."

"Do you happen to know whatever became of the Tin Woodman and the
Scarecrow?" he enquired.

"They live in Oz yet," said the girl, "and are very important people."

"And the Cowardly Lion?"

"Oh, he lives there too, with his friend the Hungry Tiger; and Billina
is there, because she liked the place better than Kansas, and wouldn't
go with me to Australia."

"I'm afraid I don't know the Hungry Tiger and Billina," said the
Wizard, shaking his head.  "Is Billina a girl?"

"No; she's a yellow hen, and a great friend of mine.  You're sure to
like Billina, when you know her," asserted Dorothy.

"Your friends sound like a menagerie," remarked Zeb, uneasily.
"Couldn't you wish me in some safer place than Oz."

"Don't worry," replied the girl.  "You'll just love the folks in Oz,
when you get acquainted.  What time is it, Mr. Wizard?"

The little man looked at his watch--a big silver one that he carried in
his vest pocket.

"Half-past three," he said.

"Then we must wait for half an hour," she continued; "but it won't take
long, after that, to carry us all to the Emerald City."

They sat silently thinking for a time.  Then Jim suddenly asked:

"Are there any horses in Oz?"

"Only one," replied Dorothy, "and he's a sawhorse."

"A what?"

"A sawhorse.  Princess Ozma once brought him to life with a
witch-powder, when she was a boy."

"Was Ozma once a boy?" asked Zeb, wonderingly.

"Yes; a wicked witch enchanted her, so she could not rule her kingdom.
But she's a girl now, and the sweetest, loveliest girl in all the
world."

"A sawhorse is a thing they saw boards on," remarked Jim, with a sniff.

"It is when it's not alive," acknowledged the girl.  "But this sawhorse
can trot as fast as you can, Jim; and he's very wise, too."

"Pah!  I'll race the miserable wooden donkey any day in the week!"
cried the cab-horse.

Dorothy did not reply to that.  She felt that Jim would know more about
the Saw-Horse later on.

The time dragged wearily enough to the eager watchers, but finally the
Wizard announced that four o'clock had arrived, and Dorothy caught up
the kitten and began to make the signal that had been agreed upon to
the far-away invisible Ozma.

"Nothing seems to happen," said Zeb, doubtfully.

"Oh, we must give Ozma time to put on the Magic Belt," replied the girl.

She had scarcely spoken the words then she suddenly disappeared from
the cave, and with her went the kitten.  There had been no sound of any
kind and no warning.  One moment Dorothy sat beside them with the
kitten in her lap, and a moment later the horse, the piglets, the
Wizard and the boy were all that remained in the underground prison.

"I believe we will soon follow her," announced the Wizard, in a tone of
great relief; "for I know something about the magic of the fairyland
that is called the Land of Oz.  Let us be ready, for we may be sent for
any minute."

He put the piglets safely away in his pocket again and then he and Zeb
got into the buggy and sat expectantly upon the seat.

"Will it hurt?" asked the boy, in a voice that trembled a little.

"Not at all," replied the Wizard.  "It will all happen as quick as a
wink."

And that was the way it did happen.

The cab-horse gave a nervous start and Zeb began to rub his eyes to
make sure he was not asleep.  For they were in the streets of a
beautiful emerald-green city, bathed in a grateful green light that was
especially pleasing to their eyes, and surrounded by merry faced people
in gorgeous green-and-gold costumes of many extraordinary designs.

Before them were the jewel-studded gates of a magnificent palace, and
now the gates opened slowly as if inviting them to enter the courtyard,
where splendid flowers were blooming and pretty fountains shot their
silvery sprays into the air.

Zeb shook the reins to rouse the cab-horse from his stupor of
amazement, for the people were beginning to gather around and stare at
the strangers.

"Gid-dap!" cried the boy, and at the word Jim slowly trotted into the
courtyard and drew the buggy along the jewelled driveway to the great
entrance of the royal palace.




15.  Old Friends are Reunited


Many servants dressed in handsome uniforms stood ready to welcome the
new arrivals, and when the Wizard got out of the buggy a pretty girl in
a green gown cried out in surprise:

"Why, it's Oz, the Wonderful Wizard, come back again!"

The little man looked at her closely and then took both the maiden's
hands in his and shook them cordially.

"On my word," he exclaimed, "it's little Jellia Jamb--as pert and
pretty as ever!"

"Why not, Mr. Wizard?" asked Jellia, bowing low.  "But I'm afraid you
cannot rule the Emerald City, as you used to, because we now have a
beautiful Princess whom everyone loves dearly."

"And the people will not willingly part with her," added a tall soldier
in a Captain-General's uniform.

The Wizard turned to look at him.

"Did you not wear green whiskers at one time?" he asked.

"Yes," said the soldier; "but I shaved them off long ago, and since
then I have risen from a private to be the Chief General of the Royal
Armies."

"That's nice," said the little man.  "But I assure you, my good people,
that I do not wish to rule the Emerald City," he added, earnestly.

"In that case you are very welcome!" cried all the servants, and it
pleased the Wizard to note the respect with which the royal retainers
bowed before him.  His fame had not been forgotten in the Land of Oz,
by any means.

"Where is Dorothy?" enquired Zeb, anxiously, as he left the buggy and
stood beside his friend the little Wizard.

"She is with the Princess Ozma, in the private rooms of the palace,"
replied Jellia Jamb.  "But she has ordered me to make you welcome and
to show you to your apartments."

The boy looked around him with wondering eyes.  Such magnificence and
wealth as was displayed in this palace was more than he had ever
dreamed of, and he could scarcely believe that all the gorgeous glitter
was real and not tinsel.

"What's to become of me?" asked the horse, uneasily.  He had seen
considerable of life in the cities in his younger days, and knew that
this regal palace was no place for him.

It perplexed even Jellia Jamb, for a time, to know what to do with the
animal.  The green maiden was much astonished at the sight of so
unusual a creature, for horses were unknown in this Land; but those who
lived in the Emerald City were apt to be astonished by queer sights, so
after inspecting the cab-horse and noting the mild look in his big eyes
the girl decided not to be afraid of him.

"There are no stables here," said the Wizard, "unless some have been
built since I went away."

"We have never needed them before," answered Jellia; "for the Sawhorse
lives in a room of the palace, being much smaller and more natural in
appearance than this great beast you have brought with you."

"Do you mean that I'm a freak?" asked Jim, angrily.

"Oh, no," she hastened to say, "there may be many more like you in the
place you came from, but in Oz any horse but a Sawhorse is unusual."

This mollified Jim a little, and after some thought the green maiden
decided to give the cab-horse a room in the palace, such a big building
having many rooms that were seldom in use.

So Zeb unharnessed Jim, and several of the servants then led the horse
around to the rear, where they selected a nice large apartment that he
could have all to himself.

Then Jellia said to the Wizard:

"Your own room--which was back of the great Throne Room--has been
vacant ever since you left us.  Would you like it again?"

"Yes, indeed!" returned the little man.  "It will seem like being at
home again, for I lived in that room for many, many years."

He knew the way to it, and a servant followed him, carrying his
satchel.  Zeb was also escorted to a room--so grand and beautiful that
he almost feared to sit in the chairs or lie upon the bed, lest he
might dim their splendor.  In the closets he discovered many fancy
costumes of rich velvets and brocades, and one of the attendants told
him to dress himself in any of the clothes that pleased him and to be
prepared to dine with the Princess and Dorothy in an hour's time.

Opening from the chamber was a fine bathroom having a marble tub with
perfumed water; so the boy, still dazed by the novelty of his
surroundings, indulged in a good bath and then selected a maroon velvet
costume with silver buttons to replace his own soiled and much worn
clothing.  There were silk stockings and soft leather slippers with
diamond buckles to accompany his new costume, and when he was fully
dressed Zeb looked much more dignified and imposing than ever before in
his life.

He was all ready when an attendant came to escort him to the presence
of the Princess; he followed bashfully and was ushered into a room more
dainty and attractive than it was splendid.  Here he found Dorothy
seated beside a young girl so marvelously beautiful that the boy
stopped suddenly with a gasp of admiration.

But Dorothy sprang up and ran to seize her friend's hand drawing him
impulsively toward the lovely Princess, who smiled most graciously upon
her guest.  Then the Wizard entered, and his presence relieved the
boy's embarrassment.  The little man was clothed in black velvet, with
many sparkling emerald ornaments decorating his breast; but his bald
head and wrinkled features made him appear more amusing than impressive.

Ozma had been quite curious to meet the famous man who had built the
Emerald City and united the Munchkins, Gillikins, Quadlings and Winkies
into one people; so when they were all four seated at the dinner table
the Princess said:

"Please tell me, Mr. Wizard, whether you called yourself Oz after this
great country, or whether you believe my country is called Oz after
you.  It is a matter that I have long wished to enquire about, because
you are of a strange race and my own name is Ozma.  No, one, I am sure,
is better able to explain this mystery than you."

"That is true," answered the little Wizard; "therefore it will give me
pleasure to explain my connection with your country.  In the first
place, I must tell you that I was born in Omaha, and my father, who was
a politician, named me Oscar Zoroaster Phadrig Isaac Norman Henkle
Emmannuel Ambroise Diggs, Diggs being the last name because he could
think of no more to go before it.  Taken altogether, it was a
dreadfully long name to weigh down a poor innocent child, and one of
the hardest lessons I ever learned was to remember my own name.  When I
grew up I just called myself O. Z., because the other initials were
P-I-N-H-E-A-D; and that spelled 'pinhead,' which was a reflection on my
intelligence."

"Surely no one could blame you for cutting your name short," said Ozma,
sympathetically.  "But didn't you cut it almost too short?"

"Perhaps so," replied the Wizard.  "When a young man I ran away from
home and joined a circus.  I used to call myself a Wizard, and do
tricks of ventriloquism."

"What does that mean?" asked the Princess.

"Throwing my voice into any object I pleased, to make it appear that
the object was speaking instead of me.  Also I began to make balloon
ascensions.  On my balloon and on all the other articles I used in the
circus I painted the two initials: 'O. Z.', to show that those things
belonged to me.

"One day my balloon ran away with me and brought me across the deserts
to this beautiful country.  When the people saw me come from the sky
they naturally thought me some superior creature, and bowed down before
me.  I told them I was a Wizard, and showed them some easy tricks that
amazed them; and when they saw the initials painted on the balloon they
called me Oz."

"Now I begin to understand," said the Princess, smiling.

"At that time," continued the Wizard, busily eating his soup while
talking, "there were four separate countries in this Land, each one of
the four being ruled by a Witch.  But the people thought my power was
greater than that of the Witches; and perhaps the Witches thought so
too, for they never dared oppose me.  I ordered the Emerald City to be
built just where the four countries cornered together, and when it was
completed I announced myself the Ruler of the Land of Oz, which
included all the four countries of the Munchkins, the Gillikins, the
Winkies and the Quadlings.  Over this Land I ruled in peace for many
years, until I grew old and longed to see my native city once again.
So when Dorothy was first blown to this place by a cyclone I arranged
to go away with her in a balloon; but the balloon escaped too soon and
carried me back alone.  After many adventures I reached Omaha, only to
find that all my old friends were dead or had moved away.  So, having
nothing else to do, I joined a circus again, and made my balloon
ascensions until the earthquake caught me."

"That is quite a history," said Ozma; "but there is a little more
history about the Land of Oz that you do not seem to
understand--perhaps for the reason that no one ever told it you.  Many
years before you came here this Land was united under one Ruler, as it
is now, and the Ruler's name was always 'Oz,' which means in our
language 'Great and Good'; or, if the Ruler happened to be a woman, her
name was always 'Ozma.'  But once upon a time four Witches leagued
together to depose the king and rule the four parts of the kingdom
themselves; so when the Ruler, my grandfather, was hunting one day, one
Wicked Witch named Mombi stole him and carried him away, keeping him a
close prisoner.  Then the Witches divided up the kingdom, and ruled the
four parts of it until you came here.  That was why the people were so
glad to see you, and why they thought from your initials that you were
their rightful ruler."

"But, at that time," said the Wizard, thoughtfully, "there were two
Good Witches and two Wicked Witches ruling in the land."

"Yes," replied Ozma, "because a good Witch had conquered Mombi in the
North and Glinda the Good had conquered the evil Witch in the South.
But Mombi was still my grandfather's jailor, and afterward my father's
jailor.  When I was born she transformed me into a boy, hoping that no
one would ever recognize me and know that I was the rightful Princess
of the Land of Oz.  But I escaped from her and am now the Ruler of my
people."

"I am very glad of that," said the Wizard, "and hope you will consider
me one of your most faithful and devoted subjects."

"We owe a great deal to the Wonderful Wizard," continued the Princess,
"for it was you who built this splendid Emerald City."

"Your people built it," he answered.  "I only bossed the job, as we say
in Omaha."

"But you ruled it wisely and well for many years," said she, "and made
the people proud of your magical art.  So, as you are now too old to
wander abroad and work in a circus, I offer you a home here as long as
you live.  You shall be the Official Wizard of my kingdom, and be
treated with every respect and consideration."

"I accept your kind offer with gratitude, gracious Princess," the
little man said, in a soft voice, and they could all see that
tear-drops were standing in his keen old eyes.  It meant a good deal to
him to secure a home like this.

"He's only a humbug Wizard, though," said Dorothy, smiling at him.

"And that is the safest kind of a Wizard to have," replied Ozma,
promptly.

"Oz can do some good tricks, humbug or no humbug," announced Zeb, who
was now feeling more at ease.

"He shall amuse us with his tricks tomorrow," said the Princess.  "I
have sent messengers to summon all of Dorothy's old friends to meet her
and give her welcome, and they ought to arrive very soon, now."

Indeed, the dinner was no sooner finished than in rushed the Scarecrow,
to hug Dorothy in his padded arms and tell her how glad he was to see
her again.  The Wizard was also most heartily welcomed by the straw
man, who was an important personage in the Land of Oz.

"How are your brains?" enquired the little humbug, as he grasped the
soft, stuffed hands of his old friend.

"Working finely," answered the Scarecrow.  "I'm very certain, Oz, that
you gave me the best brains in the world, for I can think with them day
and night, when all other brains are fast asleep."

"How long did you rule the Emerald City, after I left here?" was the
next question.

"Quite awhile, until I was conquered by a girl named General Jinjur.
But Ozma soon conquered her, with the help of Glinda the Good, and
after that I went to live with Nick Chopper, the Tin Woodman."

Just then a loud cackling was heard outside; and, when a servant threw
open the door with a low bow, a yellow hen strutted in.  Dorothy sprang
forward and caught the fluffy fowl in her arms, uttering at the same
time a glad cry.

"Oh, Billina!" she said; "how fat and sleek you've grown."

"Why shouldn't I?" asked the hen, in a sharp, clear voice.  "I live on
the fat of the land--don't I, Ozma?"

"You have everything you wish for," said the Princess.

Around Billina's neck was a string of beautiful pearls, and on her legs
were bracelets of emeralds.  She nestled herself comfortably in
Dorothy's lap until the kitten gave a snarl of jealous anger and leaped
up with a sharp claw fiercely bared to strike Billina a blow.  But the
little girl gave the angry kitten such a severe cuff that it jumped
down again without daring to scratch.

"How horrid of you, Eureka!" cried Dorothy.  "Is that the way to treat
my friends?"

"You have queer friends, seems to me," replied the kitten, in a surly
tone.

"Seems to me the same way," said Billina, scornfully, "if that beastly
cat is one of them."

"Look here!" said Dorothy, sternly.  "I won't have any quarrelling in
the Land of Oz, I can tell you!  Everybody lives in peace here, and
loves everybody else; and unless you two, Billina and Eureka, make up
and be friends, I'll take my Magic Belt and wish you both home again,
IMMEJITLY.  So, there!"

They were both much frightened at the threat, and promised meekly to be
good.  But it was never noticed that they became very warm friends, for
all of that.

And now the Tin Woodman arrived, his body most beautifully
nickle-plated, so that it shone splendidly in the brilliant light of
the room.  The Tin Woodman loved Dorothy most tenderly, and welcomed
with joy the return of the little old Wizard.

"Sir," said he to the latter, "I never can thank you enough for the
excellent heart you once gave me.  It has made me many friends, I
assure you, and it beats as kindly and lovingly today as it every did."

"I'm glad to hear that," said the Wizard.  "I was afraid it would get
moldy in that tin body of yours."

"Not at all," returned Nick Chopper.  "It keeps finely, being preserved
in my air-tight chest."

Zeb was a little shy when first introduced to these queer people; but
they were so friendly and sincere that he soon grew to admire them very
much, even finding some good qualities in the yellow hen.  But he
became nervous again when the next visitor was announced.

"This," said Princess Ozma, "is my friend Mr. H. M. Woggle-Bug, T. E.,
who assisted me one time when I was in great distress, and is now the
Dean of the Royal College of Athletic Science."

"Ah," said the Wizard; "I'm pleased to meet so distinguished a
personage."

"H. M.," said the Woggle-Bug, pompously, "means Highly Magnified; and
T. E. means Thoroughly Educated.  I am, in reality, a very big bug, and
doubtless the most intelligent being in all this broad domain."

"How well you disguise it," said the Wizard.  "But I don't doubt your
word in the least."

"Nobody doubts it, sir," replied the Woggle-Bug, and drawing a book
from its pocket the strange insect turned its back on the company and
sat down in a corner to read.

Nobody minded this rudeness, which might have seemed more impolite in
one less thoroughly educated; so they straightway forgot him and joined
in a merry conversation that kept them well amused until bed-time
arrived.




16.  Jim, The Cab-Horse


Jim the Cab-horse found himself in possession of a large room with a
green marble floor and carved marble wainscoting, which was so stately
in its appearance that it would have awed anyone else.  Jim accepted it
as a mere detail, and at his command the attendants gave his coat a
good rubbing, combed his mane and tail, and washed his hoofs and
fetlocks.  Then they told him dinner would be served directly and he
replied that they could not serve it too quickly to suit his
convenience.  First they brought him a steaming bowl of soup, which the
horse eyed in dismay.

"Take that stuff away!" he commanded.  "Do you take me for a
salamander?"

They obeyed at once, and next served a fine large turbot on a silver
platter, with drawn gravy poured over it.

"Fish!" cried Jim, with a sniff.  "Do you take me for a tom-cat?  Away
with it!"

The servants were a little discouraged, but soon they brought in a
great tray containing two dozen nicely roasted quail on toast.

"Well, well!" said the horse, now thoroughly provoked.  "Do you take me
for a weasel?  How stupid and ignorant you are, in the Land of Oz, and
what dreadful things you feed upon!  Is there nothing that is decent to
eat in this palace?"

The trembling servants sent for the Royal Steward, who came in haste
and said:

"What would your Highness like for dinner?"

"Highness!" repeated Jim, who was unused to such titles.

"You are at least six feet high, and that is higher than any other
animal in this country," said the Steward.

"Well, my Highness would like some oats,"  declared the horse.

"Oats?  We have no whole oats," the Steward replied, with much
deference.  "But there is any quantity of oatmeal, which we often cook
for breakfast.  Oatmeal is a breakfast dish," added the Steward, humbly.

"I'll make it a dinner dish," said Jim.  "Fetch it on, but don't cook
it, as you value your life."

You see, the respect shown the worn-out old cab-horse made him a little
arrogant, and he forgot he was a guest, never having been treated
otherwise than as a servant since the day he was born, until his
arrival in the Land of Oz.  But the royal attendants did not heed the
animal's ill temper.  They soon mixed a tub of oatmeal with a little
water, and Jim ate it with much relish.

Then the servants heaped a lot of rugs upon the floor and the old horse
slept on the softest bed he had ever known in his life.

In the morning, as soon as it was daylight, he resolved to take a walk
and try to find some grass for breakfast; so he ambled calmly through
the handsome arch of the doorway, turned the corner of the palace,
wherein all seemed asleep, and came face to face with the Sawhorse.

Jim stopped abruptly, being startled and amazed.  The Sawhorse stopped
at the same time and stared at the other with its queer protruding
eyes, which were mere knots in the log that formed its body.  The legs
of the Sawhorse were four sticks driving into holes bored in the log;
its tail was a small branch that had been left by accident and its
mouth a place chopped in one end of the body which projected a little
and served as a head.  The ends of the wooden legs were shod with
plates of solid gold, and the saddle of the Princess Ozma, which was of
red leather set with sparkling diamonds, was strapped to the clumsy
body.

Jim's eyes stuck out as much as those of the Sawhorse, and he stared at
the creature with his ears erect and his long head drawn back until it
rested against his arched neck.

In this comical position the two horses circled slowly around each
other for a while, each being unable to realize what the singular thing
might be which it now beheld for the first time.  Then Jim exclaimed:

"For goodness sake, what sort of a being are you?"

"I'm a Sawhorse," replied the other.

"Oh; I believe I've heard of you," said the cab-horse; "but you are
unlike anything that I expected to see."

"I do not doubt it," the Sawhorse observed, with a tone of pride.  "I
am considered quite unusual."

"You are, indeed.  But a rickety wooden thing like you has no right to
be alive."

"I couldn't help it," returned the other, rather crestfallen.  "Ozma
sprinkled me with a magic powder, and I just had to live.  I know I'm
not much account; but I'm the only horse in all the Land of Oz, so they
treat me with great respect."

"You, a horse!"

"Oh, not a real one, of course.  There are no real horses here at all.
But I'm a splendid imitation of one."

Jim gave an indignant neigh.

"Look at me!" he cried.  "Behold a real horse!"

The wooden animal gave a start, and then examined the other intently.

"Is it possible that you are a Real Horse?" he murmured.

"Not only possible, but true," replied Jim, who was gratified by the
impression he had created.  "It is proved by my fine points.  For
example, look at the long hairs on my tail, with which I can whisk away
the flies."

"The flies never trouble me," said the Saw-Horse.

"And notice my great strong teeth, with which I nibble the grass."

"It is not necessary for me to eat," observed the Sawhorse.

"Also examine my broad chest, which enables me to draw deep, full
breaths," said Jim, proudly.

"I have no need to breathe," returned the other.

"No; you miss many pleasures," remarked the cab-horse, pityingly.  "You
do not know the relief of brushing away a fly that has bitten you, nor
the delight of eating delicious food, nor the satisfaction of drawing a
long breath of fresh, pure air.  You may be an imitation of a horse,
but you're a mighty poor one."

"Oh, I cannot hope ever to be like you," sighed the Sawhorse.  "But I
am glad to meet a last a Real Horse.  You are certainly the most
beautiful creature I ever beheld."

This praise won Jim completely.  To be called beautiful was a novelty
in his experience.  Said he:

"Your chief fault, my friend, is in being made of wood, and that I
suppose you cannot help.  Real horses, like myself, are made of flesh
and blood and bones."

"I can see the bones all right," replied the Sawhorse, "and they are
admirable and distinct.  Also I can see the flesh.  But the blood, I
suppose is tucked away inside."

"Exactly," said Jim.

"What good is it?" asked the Sawhorse.

Jim did not know, but he would not tell the Sawhorse that.

"If anything cuts me," he replied, "the blood runs out to show where I
am cut.  You, poor thing! cannot even bleed when you are hurt."

"But I am never hurt," said the Sawhorse.  "Once in a while I get
broken up some, but I am easily repaired and put in good order again.
And I never feel a break or a splinter in the least."

Jim was almost tempted to envy the wooden horse for being unable to
feel pain; but the creature was so absurdly unnatural that he decided
he would not change places with it under any circumstances.

"How did you happen to be shod with gold?" he asked.

"Princess Ozma did that," was the reply; "and it saves my legs from
wearing out.  We've had a good many adventures together, Ozma and I,
and she likes me."

The cab-horse was about to reply when suddenly he gave a start and a
neigh of terror and stood trembling like a leaf.  For around the corner
had come two enormous savage beasts, treading so lightly that they were
upon him before he was aware of their presence.  Jim was in the act of
plunging down the path to escape when the Sawhorse cried out:

"Stop, my brother!  Stop, Real Horse!  These are friends, and will do
you no harm."

Jim hesitated, eyeing the beasts fearfully.  One was an enormous Lion
with clear, intelligent eyes, a tawney mane bushy and well kept, and a
body like yellow plush.  The other was a great Tiger with purple
stripes around his lithe body, powerful limbs, and eyes that showed
through the half closed lids like coals of fire.  The huge forms of
these monarchs of the forest and jungle were enough to strike terror to
the stoutest heart, and it is no wonder Jim was afraid to face them.

But the Sawhorse introduced the stranger in a calm tone, saying:

"This, noble Horse, is my friend the Cowardly Lion, who is the valiant
King of the Forest, but at the same time a faithful vassal of Princess
Ozma.  And this is the Hungry Tiger, the terror of the jungle, who
longs to devour fat babies but is prevented by his conscience from
doing so.  These royal beasts are both warm friends of little Dorothy
and have come to the Emerald City this morning to welcome her to our
fairyland."

Hearing these words Jim resolved to conquer his alarm.  He bowed his
head with as much dignity as he could muster toward the savage looking
beasts, who in return nodded in a friendly way.

"Is not the Real Horse a beautiful animal?" asked the Sawhorse
admiringly.

"That is doubtless a matter of taste," returned the Lion.  "In the
forest he would be thought ungainly, because his face is stretched out
and his neck is uselessly long.  His joints, I notice, are swollen and
overgrown, and he lacks flesh and is old in years."

"And dreadfully tough," added the Hungry Tiger, in a sad voice.  "My
conscience would never permit me to eat so tough a morsel as the Real
Horse."

"I'm glad of that," said Jim; "for I, also, have a conscience, and it
tells me not to crush in your skull with a blow of my powerful hoof."

If he thought to frighten the striped beast by such language he was
mistaken.  The Tiger seemed to smile, and winked one eye slowly.

"You have a good conscience, friend Horse," it said, "and if you attend
to its teachings it will do much to protect you from harm.  Some day I
will let you try to crush in my skull, and afterward you will know more
about tigers than you do now."

"Any friend of Dorothy," remarked the Cowardly Lion, "must be our
friend, as well.  So let us cease this talk of skull crushing and
converse upon more pleasant subjects.  Have you breakfasted, Sir Horse?"

"Not yet," replied Jim.  "But here is plenty of excellent clover, so if
you will excuse me I will eat now."

"He's a vegetarian," remarked the Tiger, as the horse began to munch
the clover.  "If I could eat grass I would not need a conscience, for
nothing could then tempt me to devour babies and lambs."

Just then Dorothy, who had risen early and heard the voices of the
animals, ran out to greet her old friends.  She hugged both the Lion
and the Tiger with eager delight, but seemed to love the King of Beasts
a little better than she did his hungry friend, having known him longer.

By this time they had indulged in a good talk and Dorothy had told them
all about the awful earthquake and her recent adventures, the breakfast
bell rang from the palace and the little girl went inside to join her
human comrades.  As she entered the great hall a voice called out, in a
rather harsh tone:

"What! are YOU here again?"

"Yes, I am," she answered, looking all around to see where the voice
came from.

"What brought you back?" was the next question, and Dorothy's eye
rested on an antlered head hanging on the wall just over the fireplace,
and caught its lips in the act of moving.

"Good gracious!" she exclaimed.  "I thought you were stuffed."

"So I am," replied the head.  "But once on a time I was part of the
Gump, which Ozma sprinkled with the Powder of Life.  I was then for a
time the Head of the finest Flying Machine that was ever known to
exist, and we did many wonderful things.  Afterward the Gump was taken
apart and I was put back on this wall; but I can still talk when I feel
in the mood, which is not often."

"It's very strange," said the girl.  "What were you when you were first
alive?"

"That I have forgotten," replied the Gump's Head, "and I do not think
it is of much importance.  But here comes Ozma; so I'd better hush up,
for the Princess doesn't like me to chatter since she changed her name
from Tip to Ozma."

Just then the girlish Ruler of Oz opened the door and greeted Dorothy
with a good-morning kiss.  The little Princess seemed fresh and rosy
and in good spirits.

"Breakfast is served, dear," she said, "and I am hungry.  So don't let
us keep it waiting a single minute."




17.  The Nine Tiny Piglets


After breakfast Ozma announced that she had ordered a holiday to be
observed throughout the Emerald City, in honor of her visitors.  The
people had learned that their old Wizard had returned to them and all
were anxious to see him again, for he had always been a rare favorite.
So first there was to be a grand procession through the streets, after
which the little old man was requested to perform some of his
wizardries in the great Throne Room of the palace.  In the afternoon
there were to be games and races.

The procession was very imposing.  First came the Imperial Cornet Band
of Oz, dressed in emerald velvet uniforms with slashes of pea-green
satin and buttons of immense cut emeralds.  They played the National
air called "The Oz Spangled Banner," and behind them were the standard
bearers with the Royal flag.  This flag was divided into four quarters,
one being colored sky-blue, another pink, a third lavender and a fourth
white.  In the center was a large emerald-green star, and all over the
four quarters were sewn spangles that glittered beautifully in the
sunshine.  The colors represented the four countries of Oz, and the
green star the Emerald City.

Just behind the royal standard-bearers came the Princess Ozma in her
royal chariot, which was of gold encrusted with emeralds and diamonds
set in exquisite designs.  The chariot was drawn on this occasion by
the Cowardly Lion and the Hungry Tiger, who were decorated with immense
pink and blue bows.  In the chariot rode Ozma and Dorothy, the former
in splendid raiment and wearing her royal coronet, while the little
Kansas girl wore around her waist the Magic Belt she had once captured
from the Nome King.

Following the chariot came the Scarecrow mounted on the Sawhorse, and
the people cheered him almost as loudly as they did their lovely Ruler.
Behind him stalked with regular, jerky steps, the famous machine-man
called Tik-tok, who had been wound up by Dorothy for the occasion.
Tik-tok moved by clockwork, and was made all of burnished copper.  He
really belonged to the Kansas girl, who had much respect for his
thoughts after they had been properly wound and set going; but as the
copper man would be useless in any place but a fairy country Dorothy
had left him in charge of Ozma, who saw that he was suitably cared for.

There followed another band after this, which was called the Royal
Court Band, because the members all lived in the palace.  They wore
white uniforms with real diamond buttons and played "What is Oz without
Ozma" very sweetly.

Then came Professor Woggle-Bug, with a group of students from the Royal
College of Scientific Athletics.  The boys wore long hair and striped
sweaters and yelled their college yell every other step they took, to
the great satisfaction of the populace, which was glad to have this
evidence that their lungs were in good condition.

The brilliantly polished Tin Woodman marched next, at the head of the
Royal Army of Oz which consisted of twenty-eight officers, from
Generals down to Captains.  There were no privates in the army because
all were so courageous and skillful that they had been promoted one by
one until there were no privates left.  Jim and the buggy followed, the
old cab-horse being driven by Zeb while the Wizard stood up on the seat
and bowed his bald head right and left in answer to the cheers of the
people, who crowded thick about him.

Taken altogether the procession was a grand success, and when it had
returned to the palace the citizens crowded into the great Throne Room
to see the Wizard perform his tricks.

The first thing the little humbug did was to produce a tiny white
piglet from underneath his hat and pretend to pull it apart, making
two.  This act he repeated until all of the nine tiny piglets were
visible, and they were so glad to get out of his pocket that they ran
around in a very lively manner.  The pretty little creatures would have
been a novelty anywhere, so the people were as amazed and delighted at
their appearance as even the Wizard could have desired.  When he had
made them all disappear again Ozma declared she was sorry they were
gone, for she wanted one of them to pet and play with.  So the Wizard
pretended to take one of the piglets out of the hair of the Princess
(while really he slyly took it from his inside pocket) and Ozma smiled
joyously as the creature nestled in her arms, and she promised to have
an emerald collar made for its fat neck and to keep the little squealer
always at hand to amuse her.

Afterward it was noticed that the Wizard always performed his famous
trick with eight piglets, but it seemed to please the people just as
well as if there had been nine of them.

In his little room back of the Throne Room the Wizard had found a lot
of things he had left behind him when he went away in the balloon, for
no one had occupied the apartment in his absence.  There was enough
material there to enable him to prepare several new tricks which he had
learned from some of the jugglers in the circus, and he had passed part
of the night in getting them ready.  So he followed the trick of the
nine tiny piglets with several other wonderful feats that greatly
delighted his audience and the people did not seem to care a bit
whether the little man was a humbug Wizard or not, so long as he
succeeded in amusing them.  They applauded all his tricks and at the
end of the performance begged him earnestly not to go away again and
leave them.

"In that case," said the little man, gravely, "I will cancel all of my
engagements before the crowned heads of Europe and America and devote
myself to the people of Oz, for I love you all so well that I can deny
you nothing."

After the people had been dismissed with this promise our friends
joined Princess Ozma at an elaborate luncheon in the palace, where even
the Tiger and the Lion were sumptuously fed and Jim the Cab-horse ate
his oatmeal out of a golden bowl with seven rows of rubies, sapphires
and diamonds set around the rim of it.

In the afternoon they all went to a great field outside the city gates
where the games were to be held.  There was a beautiful canopy for Ozma
and her guests to sit under and watch the people run races and jump and
wrestle.  You may be sure the folks of Oz did their best with such a
distinguished company watching them, and finally Zeb offered to wrestle
with a little Munchkin who seemed to be the champion.  In appearance he
was twice as old as Zeb, for he had long pointed whiskers and wore a
peaked hat with little bells all around the brim of it, which tinkled
gaily as he moved.  But although the Munchkin was hardly tall enough to
come to Zeb's shoulder he was so strong and clever that he laid the boy
three times on his back with apparent ease.

Zeb was greatly astonished at his defeat, and when the pretty Princess
joined her people in laughing at him he proposed a boxing-match with
the Munchkin, to which the little Ozite readily agreed.  But the first
time that Zeb managed to give him a sharp box on the ears the Munchkin
sat down upon the ground and cried until the tears ran down his
whiskers, because he had been hurt.  This made Zeb laugh, in turn, and
the boy felt comforted to find that Ozma laughed as merrily at her
weeping subject as she had at him.

Just then the Scarecrow proposed a race between the Sawhorse and the
Cab-horse; and although all the others were delighted at the suggestion
the Sawhorse drew back, saying:

"Such a race would not be fair."

"Of course not," added Jim, with a touch of scorn; "those little wooden
legs of yours are not half as long as my own."

"It isn't that," said the Sawhorse, modestly; "but I never tire, and
you do."

"Bah!" cried Jim, looking with great disdain at the other; "do you
imagine for an instant that such a shabby imitation of a horse as you
are can run as fast as I?"

"I don't know, I'm sure," replied the Sawhorse.

"That is what we are trying to find out," remarked the Scarecrow.  "The
object of a race is to see who can win it--or at least that is what my
excellent brains think."

"Once, when I was young," said Jim, "I was a race horse, and defeated
all who dared run against me.  I was born in Kentucky, you know, where
all the best and most aristocratic horses come from."

"But you're old, now, Jim," suggested Zeb.

"Old!  Why, I feel like a colt today," replied Jim.  "I only wish there
was a real horse here for me to race with.  I'd show the people a fine
sight, I can tell you."

"Then why not race with the Sawhorse?" enquired the Scarecrow.

"He's afraid," said Jim.

"Oh, no," answered the Sawhorse.  "I merely said it wasn't fair.  But
if my friend the Real Horse is willing to undertake the race I am quite
ready."

So they unharnessed Jim and took the saddle off the Sawhorse, and the
two queerly matched animals were stood side by side for the start.

"When I say 'Go!'" Zeb called to them, "you must dig out and race until
you reach those three trees you see over yonder.  Then circle 'round
them and come back again.  The first one that passes the place where
the Princess sits shall be named the winner.  Are you ready?"

"I suppose I ought to give the wooden dummy a good start of me,"
growled Jim.

"Never mind that," said the Sawhorse.  "I'll do the best I can."

"Go!" cried Zeb; and at the word the two horses leaped forward and the
race was begun.

Jim's big hoofs pounded away at a great rate, and although he did not
look very graceful he ran in a way to do credit to his Kentucky
breeding.  But the Sawhorse was swifter than the wind.  Its wooden legs
moved so fast that their twinkling could scarcely be seen, and although
so much smaller than the cab-horse it covered the ground much faster.
Before they had reached the trees the Sawhorse was far ahead, and the
wooden animal returned to the starting place as was being lustily
cheered by the Ozites before Jim came panting up to the canopy where
the Princess and her friends were seated.

I am sorry to record the fact that Jim was not only ashamed of his
defeat but for a moment lost control of his temper.  As he looked at
the comical face of the Sawhorse he imagined that the creature was
laughing at him; so in a fit of unreasonable anger he turned around and
made a vicious kick that sent his rival tumbling head over heels upon
the ground, and broke off one of its legs and its left ear.

An instant later the Tiger crouched and launched its huge body through
the air swift and resistless as a ball from a cannon.  The beast struck
Jim full on his shoulder and sent the astonished cab-horse rolling over
and over, amid shouts of delight from the spectators, who had been
horrified by the ungracious act he had been guilty of.

When Jim came to himself and sat upon his haunches he found the
Cowardly Lion crouched on one side of him and the Hungry Tiger on the
other, and their eyes were glowing like balls of fire.

"I beg your pardon, I'm sure," said Jim, meekly.  "I was wrong to kick
the Sawhorse, and I am sorry I became angry at him.  He has won the
race, and won it fairly; but what can a horse of flesh do against a
tireless beast of wood?"

Hearing this apology the Tiger and the Lion stopped lashing their tails
and retreated with dignified steps to the side of the Princess.

"No one must injure one of our friends in our presence," growled the
Lion; and Zeb ran to Jim and whispered that unless he controlled his
temper in the future he would probably be torn to pieces.

Then the Tin Woodman cut a straight and strong limb from a tree with
his gleaming axe and made a new leg and a new ear for the Sawhorse; and
when they had been securely fastened in place Princess Ozma took the
coronet from her own head and placed it upon that of the winner of the
race.  Said she:

"My friend, I reward you for your swiftness by proclaiming you Prince
of Horses, whether of wood or of flesh; and hereafter all other
horses--in the Land of Oz, at least--must be considered imitations, and
you the real Champion of your race."

There was more applause at this, and then Ozma had the jewelled saddle
replaced upon the Sawhorse and herself rode the victor back to the city
at the head of the grand procession.

"I ought to be a fairy," grumbled Jim, as he slowly drew the buggy
home; "for to be just an ordinary horse in a fairy country is to be of
no account whatever.  It's no place for us, Zeb."

"It's lucky we got here, though," said the boy; and Jim thought of the
dark cave, and agreed with him.




18.  The Trial of Eureka the Kitten


Several days of festivity and merry-making followed, for such old
friends did not often meet and there was much to be told and talked
over between them, and many amusements to be enjoyed in this delightful
country.

Ozma was happy to have Dorothy beside her, for girls of her own age
with whom it was proper for the Princess to associate were very few,
and often the youthful Ruler of Oz was lonely for lack of companionship.

It was the third morning after Dorothy's arrival, and she was sitting
with Ozma and their friends in a reception room, talking over old
times, when the Princess said to her maid:

"Please go to my boudoir, Jellia, and get the white piglet I left on
the dressing-table.  I want to play with it."

Jellia at once departed on the errand, and she was gone so long that
they had almost forgotten her mission when the green robed maiden
returned with a troubled face.

"The piglet is not there, your Highness," said she.

"Not there!" exclaimed Ozma.  "Are you sure?"

"I have hunted in every part of the room," the maid replied.

"Was not the door closed?" asked the Princess.

"Yes, your Highness; I am sure it was; for when I opened it Dorothy's
white kitten crept out and ran up the stairs."

Hearing this, Dorothy and the Wizard exchanged startled glances, for
they remembered how often Eureka had longed to eat a piglet.  The
little girl jumped up at once.

"Come, Ozma," she said, anxiously; "let us go ourselves to search for
the piglet."

So the two went to the dressing-room of the Princess and searched
carefully in every corner and among the vases and baskets and ornaments
that stood about the pretty boudoir.  But not a trace could they find
of the tiny creature they sought.

Dorothy was nearly weeping, by this time, while Ozma was angry and
indignant.  When they returned to the others the Princess said:

"There is little doubt that my pretty piglet has been eaten by that
horrid kitten, and if that is true the offender must be punished."

"I don't b'lieve Eureka would do such a dreadful thing!" cried Dorothy,
much distressed.  "Go and get my kitten, please, Jellia, and we'll hear
what she has to say about it."

The green maiden hastened away, but presently returned and said:

"The kitten will not come.  She threatened to scratch my eyes out if I
touched her."

"Where is she?" asked Dorothy.

"Under the bed in your own room," was the reply.

So Dorothy ran to her room and found the kitten under the bed.

"Come here, Eureka!" she said.

"I won't," answered the kitten, in a surly voice.

"Oh, Eureka!  Why are you so bad?"

The kitten did not reply.

"If you don't come to me, right away," continued Dorothy, getting
provoked, "I'll take my Magic Belt and wish you in the Country of the
Gurgles."

"Why do you want me?" asked Eureka, disturbed by this threat.

"You must go to Princess Ozma.  She wants to talk to you."

"All right," returned the kitten, creeping out.  "I'm not afraid of
Ozma--or anyone else."

Dorothy carried her in her arms back to where the others sat in grieved
and thoughtful silence.

"Tell me, Eureka," said the Princess, gently: "did you eat my pretty
piglet?"

"I won't answer such a foolish question," asserted Eureka, with a snarl.

"Oh, yes you will, dear," Dorothy declared.  "The piglet is gone, and
you ran out of the room when Jellia opened the door.  So, if you are
innocent, Eureka, you must tell the Princess how you came to be in her
room, and what has become of the piglet."

"Who accuses me?" asked the kitten, defiantly.

"No one," answered Ozma.  "Your actions alone accuse you.  The fact is
that I left my little pet in my dressing-room lying asleep upon the
table; and you must have stolen in without my knowing it.  When next
the door was opened you ran out and hid yourself--and the piglet was
gone."

"That's none of my business," growled the kitten.

"Don't be impudent, Eureka," admonished Dorothy.

"It is you who are impudent," said Eureka, "for accusing me of such a
crime when you can't prove it except by guessing."

Ozma was now greatly incensed by the kitten's conduct.  She summoned
her Captain-General, and when the long, lean officer appeared she said:

"Carry this cat away to prison, and keep her in safe confinement until
she is tried by law for the crime of murder."

So the Captain-General took Eureka from the arms of the now weeping
Dorothy and in spite of the kitten's snarls and scratches carried it
away to prison.

"What shall we do now?" asked the Scarecrow, with a sigh, for such a
crime had cast a gloom over all the company.

"I will summon the Court to meet in the Throne Room at three o'clock,"
replied Ozma.  "I myself will be the judge, and the kitten shall have a
fair trial."

"What will happen if she is guilty?" asked Dorothy.

"She must die," answered the Princess.

"Nine times?" enquired the Scarecrow.

"As many times as is necessary," was the reply.  "I will ask the Tin
Woodman to defend the prisoner, because he has such a kind heart I am
sure he will do his best to save her.  And the Woggle-Bug shall be the
Public Accuser, because he is so learned that no one can deceive him."

"Who will be the jury?" asked the Tin Woodman.

"There ought to be several animals on the jury," said Ozma, "because
animals understand each other better than we people understand them.
So the jury shall consist of the Cowardly Lion, the Hungry Tiger, Jim
the Cab-horse, the Yellow Hen, the Scarecrow, the Wizard, Tik-tok the
Machine Man, the Sawhorse and Zeb of Hugson's Ranch.  That makes the
nine which the law requires, and all my people shall be admitted to
hear the testimony."

They now separated to prepare for the sad ceremony; for whenever an
appeal is made to law sorrow is almost certain to follow--even in a
fairyland like Oz.  But is must be stated that the people of that Land
were generally so well-behaved that there was not a single lawyer
amongst them, and it had been years since any Ruler had sat in judgment
upon an offender of the law.  The crime of murder being the most
dreadful crime of all, tremendous excitement prevailed in the Emerald
City when the news of Eureka's arrest and trial became known.

The Wizard, when he returned to his own room, was exceedingly
thoughtful.  He had no doubt Eureka had eaten his piglet, but he
realized that a kitten cannot be depended upon at all times to act
properly, since its nature is to destroy small animals and even birds
for food, and the tame cat that we keep in our houses today is
descended from the wild cat of the jungle--a very ferocious creature,
indeed.  The Wizard knew that if Dorothy's pet was found guilty and
condemned to death the little girl would be made very unhappy; so,
although he grieved over the piglet's sad fate as much as any of them,
he resolved to save Eureka's life.

Sending for the Tin Woodman the Wizard took him into a corner and
whispered:

"My friend, it is your duty to defend the white kitten and try to save
her, but I fear you will fail because Eureka has long wished to eat a
piglet, to my certain knowledge, and my opinion is that she has been
unable to resist the temptation.  Yet her disgrace and death would not
bring back the piglet, but only serve to make Dorothy unhappy.  So I
intend to prove the kitten's innocence by a trick."

He drew from his inside pocket one of the eight tiny piglets that were
remaining and continued:

"This creature you must hide in some safe place, and if the jury
decides that Eureka is guilty you may then produce this piglet and
claim it is the one that was lost.  All the piglets are exactly alike,
so no one can dispute your word.  This deception will save Eureka's
life, and then we may all be happy again."

"I do not like to deceive my friends," replied the Tin Woodman; "still,
my kind heart urges me to save Eureka's life, and I can usually trust
my heart to do the right thing.  So I will do as you say, friend
Wizard."

After some thought he placed the little pig inside his funnel-shaped
hat, and then put the hat upon his head and went back to his room to
think over his speech to the jury.




19.  The Wizard Performs Another Trick


At three o'clock the Throne Room was crowded with citizens, men, women
and children being eager to witness the great trial.

Princess Ozma, dressed in her most splendid robes of state, sat in the
magnificent emerald throne, with her jewelled sceptre in her hand and
her sparkling coronet upon her fair brow.  Behind her throne stood the
twenty-eight officers of her army and many officials of the royal
household.  At her right sat the queerly assorted Jury--animals,
animated dummies and people--all gravely prepared to listen to what was
said.  The kitten had been placed in a large cage just before the
throne, where she sat upon her haunches and gazed through the bars at
the crowds around her, with seeming unconcern.

And now, at a signal from Ozma, the Woggle-Bug arose and addressed the
jury.  His tone was pompous and he strutted up and down in an absurd
attempt to appear dignified.

"Your Royal Highness and Fellow Citizens," he began; "the small cat you
see a prisoner before you is accused of the crime of first murdering
and then eating our esteemed Ruler's fat piglet--or else first eating
and then murdering it.  In either case a grave crime has been committed
which deserves a grave punishment."

"Do you mean my kitten must be put in a grave?" asked Dorothy.

"Don't interrupt, little girl," said the Woggle-Bug.  "When I get my
thoughts arranged in good order I do not like to have anything upset
them or throw them into confusion."

"If your thoughts were any good they wouldn't become confused,"
remarked the Scarecrow, earnestly.  "My thoughts are always--"

"Is this a trial of thoughts, or of kittens?" demanded the Woggle-Bug.

"It's a trial of one kitten," replied the Scarecrow; "but your manner
is a trial to us all."

"Let the Public Accuser continue," called Ozma from her throne, "and I
pray you do not interrupt him."

"The criminal who now sits before the court licking her paws," resumed
the Woggle-Bug, "has long desired to unlawfully eat the fat piglet,
which was no bigger than a mouse.  And finally she made a wicked plan
to satisfy her depraved appetite for pork. I can see her, in my mind's
eye--"

"What's that?" asked the Scarecrow.

"I say I can see her in my mind's eye--"

"The mind has no eye," declared the Scarecrow.  "It's blind."

"Your Highness," cried the Woggle-Bug, appealing to Ozma, "have I a
mind's eye, or haven't I?"

"If you have, it is invisible," said the Princess.

"Very true," returned the Woggle-Bug, bowing.  "I say I see the
criminal, in my mind's eye, creeping stealthily into the room of our
Ozma and secreting herself, when no one was looking, until the Princess
had gone away and the door was closed.  Then the murderer was alone
with her helpless victim, the fat piglet, and I see her pounce upon the
innocent creature and eat it up--"

"Are you still seeing with your mind's eye?" enquired the Scarecrow.

"Of course; how else could I see it?  And we know the thing is true,
because since the time of that interview there is no piglet to be found
anywhere."

"I suppose, if the cat had been gone, instead of the piglet, your
mind's eye would see the piglet eating the cat," suggested the
Scarecrow.

"Very likely," acknowledged the Woggle-Bug.  "And now, Fellow Citizens
and Creatures of the Jury, I assert that so awful a crime deserves
death, and in the case of the ferocious criminal before you--who is now
washing her face--the death penalty should be inflicted nine times."

There was great applause when the speaker sat down.  Then the Princess
spoke in a stern voice:

"Prisoner, what have you to say for yourself?  Are you guilty, or not
guilty?"

"Why, that's for you to find out," replied Eureka.  "If you can prove
I'm guilty, I'll be willing to die nine times, but a mind's eye is no
proof, because the Woggle-Bug has no mind to see with."

"Never mind, dear," said Dorothy.

Then the Tin Woodman arose and said:

"Respected Jury and dearly beloved Ozma, I pray you not to judge this
feline prisoner unfeelingly.  I do not think the innocent kitten can be
guilty, and surely it is unkind to accuse a luncheon of being a murder.
Eureka is the sweet pet of a lovely little girl whom we all admire, and
gentleness and innocence are her chief virtues.  Look at the kitten's
intelligent eyes;" (here Eureka closed her eyes sleepily) "gaze at her
smiling countenance!" (here Eureka snarled and showed her teeth) "mark
the tender pose of her soft, padded little hands!"  (Here Eureka bared
her sharp claws and scratched at the bars of the cage.) "Would such a
gentle animal be guilty of eating a fellow creature?  No; a thousand
times, no!"

"Oh, cut it short," said Eureka; "you've talked long enough."

"I'm trying to defend you," remonstrated the Tin Woodman.

"Then say something sensible," retorted the kitten.  "Tell them it
would be foolish for me to eat the piglet, because I had sense enough
to know it would raise a row if I did.  But don't try to make out I'm
too innocent to eat a fat piglet if I could do it and not be found out.
I imagine it would taste mighty good."

"Perhaps it would, to those who eat," remarked the Tin Woodman.  "I
myself, not being built to eat, have no personal experience in such
matters.  But I remember that our great poet once said:

  'To eat is sweet
  When hunger's seat
  Demands a treat
  Of savory meat.'"


"Take this into consideration, friends of the Jury, and you will
readily decide that the kitten is wrongfully accused and should be set
at liberty."

When the Tin Woodman sat down no one applauded him, for his arguments
had not been very convincing and few believed that he had proved
Eureka's innocence.  As for the Jury, the members whispered to each
other for a few minutes and then they appointed the Hungry Tiger their
spokesman.  The huge beast slowly arose and said:

"Kittens have no consciences, so they eat whatever pleases them.  The
jury believes the white kitten known as Eureka is guilty of having
eaten the piglet owned by Princess Ozma, and recommends that she be put
to death in punishment of the crime."

The judgment of the jury was received with great applause, although
Dorothy was sobbing miserably at the fate of her pet.  The Princess was
just about to order Eureka's head chopped off with the Tin Woodman's
axe when that brilliant personage once more arose and addressed her.

"Your Highness," said he, "see how easy it is for a jury to be
mistaken.  The kitten could not have eaten your piglet--for here it is!"

He took off his funnel hat and from beneath it produced a tiny white
piglet, which he held aloft that all might see it clearly.

Ozma was delighted and exclaimed, eagerly:

"Give me my pet, Nick Chopper!"

And all the people cheered and clapped their hands, rejoicing that the
prisoner had escaped death and been proved to be innocent.

As the Princess held the white piglet in her arms and stroked its soft
hair she said: "Let Eureka out of the cage, for she is no longer a
prisoner, but our good friend.  Where did you find my missing pet, Nick
Chopper?"

"In a room of the palace," he answered.

"Justice," remarked the Scarecrow, with a sigh, "is a dangerous thing
to meddle with.  If you hadn't happened to find the piglet, Eureka
would surely have been executed."

"But justice prevailed at the last," said Ozma, "for here is my pet,
and Eureka is once more free."

"I refuse to be free," cried the kitten, in a sharp voice, "unless the
Wizard can do his trick with eight piglets.  If he can produce but
seven, then this is not the piglet that was lost, but another one."

"Hush, Eureka!" warned the Wizard.

"Don't be foolish," advised the Tin Woodman, "or you may be sorry for
it."

"The piglet that belonged to the Princess wore an emerald collar," said
Eureka, loudly enough for all to hear.

"So it did!" exclaimed Ozma.  "This cannot be the one the Wizard gave
me."

"Of course not; he had nine of them, altogether," declared Eureka; "and
I must say it was very stingy of him not to let me eat just a few.  But
now that this foolish trial is ended, I will tell you what really
became of your pet piglet."

At this everyone in the Throne Room suddenly became quiet, and the
kitten continued, in a calm, mocking tone of voice:

"I will confess that I intended to eat the little pig for my breakfast;
so I crept into the room where it was kept while the Princess was
dressing and hid myself under a chair.  When Ozma went away she closed
the door and left her pet on the table.  At once I jumped up and told
the piglet not to make a fuss, for he would be inside of me in half a
second; but no one can teach one of these creatures to be reasonable.
Instead of keeping still, so I could eat him comfortably, he trembled
so with fear that he fell off the table into a big vase that was
standing on the floor.  The vase had a very small neck, and spread out
at the top like a bowl.  At first the piglet stuck in the neck of the
vase and I thought I should get him, after all, but he wriggled himself
through and fell down into the deep bottom part--and I suppose he's
there yet."

All were astonished at this confession, and Ozma at once sent an
officer to her room to fetch the vase.  When he returned the Princess
looked down the narrow neck of the big ornament and discovered her lost
piglet, just as Eureka had said she would.

There was no way to get the creature out without breaking the vase, so
the Tin Woodman smashed it with his axe and set the little prisoner
free.

Then the crowd cheered lustily and Dorothy hugged the kitten in her
arms and told her how delighted she was to know that she was innocent.

"But why didn't you tell us at first?" she asked.

"It would have spoiled the fun," replied the kitten, yawning.

Ozma gave the Wizard back the piglet he had so kindly allowed Nick
Chopper to substitute for the lost one, and then she carried her own
into the apartments of the palace where she lived.  And now, the trial
being over, the good citizens of the Emerald City scattered to their
homes, well content with the day's amusement.




20.  Zeb Returns to the Ranch


Eureka was much surprised to find herself in disgrace; but she was, in
spite of the fact that she had not eaten the piglet.  For the folks of
Oz knew the kitten had tried to commit the crime, and that only an
accident had prevented her from doing so; therefore even the Hungry
Tiger preferred not to associate with her.  Eureka was forbidden to
wander around the palace and was made to stay in confinement in
Dorothy's room; so she began to beg her mistress to send her to some
other place where she could enjoy herself better.

Dorothy was herself anxious to get home, so she promised Eureka they
would not stay in the Land of Oz much longer.

The next evening after the trial the little girl begged Ozma to allow
her to look in the enchanted picture, and the Princess readily
consented.  She took the child to her room and said: "Make your wish,
dear, and the picture will show the scene you desire to behold."

Then Dorothy found, with the aid of the enchanted picture, that Uncle
Henry had returned to the farm in Kansas, and she also saw that both he
and Aunt Em were dressed in mourning, because they thought their little
niece had been killed by the earthquake.

"Really," said the girl, anxiously, "I must get back as soon as
poss'ble to my own folks."

Zeb also wanted to see his home, and although he did not find anyone
morning for him, the sight of Hugson's Ranch in the picture made him
long to get back there.

"This is a fine country, and I like all the people that live in it," he
told Dorothy.  "But the fact is, Jim and I don't seem to fit into a
fairyland, and the old horse has been begging me to go home again ever
since he lost the race.  So, if you can find a way to fix it, we'll be
much obliged to you."

"Ozma can do it, easily," replied Dorothy.  "Tomorrow morning I'll go
to Kansas and you can go to Californy."

That last evening was so delightful that the boy will never forget it
as long as he lives.  They were all together (except Eureka) in the
pretty rooms of the Princess, and the Wizard did some new tricks, and
the Scarecrow told stories, and the Tin Woodman sang a love song in a
sonorous, metallic voice, and everybody laughed and had a good time.
Then Dorothy wound up Tik-tok and he danced a jig to amuse the company,
after which the Yellow Hen related some of her adventures with the Nome
King in the Land of Ev.

The Princess served delicious refreshments to those who were in the
habit of eating, and when Dorothy's bed time arrived the company
separated after exchanging many friendly sentiments.

Next morning they all assembled for the final parting, and many of the
officials and courtiers came to look upon the impressive ceremonies.

Dorothy held Eureka in her arms and bade her friends a fond good-bye.

"You must come again, some time," said the little Wizard; and she
promised she would if she found it possible to do so.

"But Uncle Henry and Aunt Em need me to help them," she added, "so I
can't ever be very long away from the farm in Kansas."

Ozma wore the Magic Belt; and, when she had kissed Dorothy farewell and
had made her wish, the little girl and her kitten disappeared in a
twinkling.

"Where is she?" asked Zeb, rather bewildered by the suddenness of it.

"Greeting her uncle and aunt in Kansas, by this time," returned Ozma,
with a smile.

Then Zeb brought out Jim, all harnessed to the buggy, and took his seat.

"I'm much obliged for all your kindness," said the boy, "and very
grateful to you for saving my life and sending me home again after all
the good times I've had.  I think this is the loveliest country in the
world; but not being fairies Jim and I feel we ought to be where we
belong--and that's at the ranch.  Good-bye, everybody!"

He gave a start and rubbed his eyes.  Jim was trotting along the
well-known road, shaking his ears and whisking his tail with a
contented motion.  Just ahead of them were the gates of Hugson's Ranch,
and Uncle Hugson now came out and stood with uplifted arms and wide
open mouth, staring in amazement.

"Goodness gracious!  It's Zeb--and Jim, too!" he exclaimed.  "Where in
the world have you been, my lad?"

"Why, in the world, Uncle," answered Zeb, with a laugh.





1.  How the Nome King Became Angry

The Nome King was in an angry mood, and at such times he was very
disagreeable.  Every one kept away from him, even his Chief Steward
Kaliko.

Therefore the King stormed and raved all by himself, walking up and
down in his jewel-studded cavern and getting angrier all the time.
Then he remembered that it was no fun being angry unless he had some
one to frighten and make miserable, and he rushed to his big gong and
made it clatter as loud as he could.

In came the Chief Steward, trying not to show the Nome King how
frightened he was.

"Send the Chief Counselor here!" shouted the angry monarch.

Kaliko ran out as fast as his spindle legs could carry his fat, round
body, and soon the Chief Counselor entered the cavern.  The King
scowled and said to him:

"I'm in great trouble over the loss of my Magic Belt.  Every little
while I want to do something magical, and find I can't because the Belt
is gone.  That makes me angry, and when I'm angry I can't have a good
time.  Now, what do you advise?"

"Some people," said the Chief Counselor, "enjoy getting angry."

"But not all the time," declared the King.  "To be angry once in a
while is really good fun, because it makes others so miserable.  But to
be angry morning, noon and night, as I am, grows monotonous and
prevents my gaining any other pleasure in life.  Now what do you
advise?"

"Why, if you are angry because you want to do magical things and can't,
and if you don't want to get angry at all, my advice is not to want to
do magical things."

Hearing this, the King glared at his Counselor with a furious
expression and tugged at his own long white whiskers until he pulled
them so hard that he yelled with pain.

"You are a fool!" he exclaimed.

"I share that honor with your Majesty," said the Chief Counselor.

The King roared with rage and stamped his foot.

"Ho, there, my guards!" he cried.  "Ho" is a royal way of saying, "Come
here."   So, when the guards had hoed, the King said to them:

"Take this Chief Counselor and throw him away."

Then the guards took the Chief Counselor, and bound him with chains to
prevent his struggling, and threw him away.  And the King paced up and
down his cavern more angry than before.

Finally he rushed to his big gong and made it clatter like a fire
alarm.  Kaliko appeared again, trembling and white with fear.

"Fetch my pipe!" yelled the King.

"Your pipe is already here, your Majesty," replied Kaliko.

"Then get my tobacco!" roared the King.

"The tobacco is in your pipe, your Majesty," returned the Steward.

"Then bring a live coal from the furnace!" commanded the King.

"The tobacco is lighted, and your Majesty is already smoking your
pipe," answered the Steward.

"Why, so I am!" said the King, who had forgotten this fact; "but you
are very rude to remind me of it."

"I am a lowborn, miserable villain," declared the Chief Steward, humbly.

The Nome King could think of nothing to say next, so he puffed away at
his pipe and paced up and down the room.  Finally, he remembered how
angry he was, and cried out:

"What do you mean, Kaliko, by being so contented when your monarch is
unhappy?"

"What makes you unhappy?" asked the Steward.

"I've lost my Magic Belt.  A little girl named Dorothy, who was here
with Ozma of Oz, stole my Belt and carried it away with her," said the
King, grinding his teeth with rage.

"She captured it in a fair fight," Kaliko ventured to say.

"But I want it!  I must have it!  Half my power is gone with that
Belt!" roared the King.

"You will have to go to the Land of Oz to recover it, and your Majesty
can't get to the Land of Oz in any possible way," said the Steward,
yawning because he had been on duty ninety-six hours, and was sleepy.

"Why not?" asked the King.

"Because there is a deadly desert all around that fairy country, which
no one is able to cross.  You know that fact as well as I do, your
Majesty.  Never mind the lost Belt.  You have plenty of power left, for
you rule this underground kingdom like a tyrant, and thousands of Nomes
obey your commands.  I advise you to drink a glass of melted silver, to
quiet your nerves, and then go to bed."

The King grabbed a big ruby and threw it at Kaliko's head.  The Steward
ducked to escape the heavy jewel, which crashed against the door just
over his left ear.

"Get out of my sight!  Vanish!  Go away--and send General Blug here,"
screamed the Nome King.

Kaliko hastily withdrew, and the Nome King stamped up and down until
the General of his armies appeared.

This Nome was known far and wide as a terrible fighter and a cruel,
desperate commander.  He had fifty thousand Nome soldiers, all well
drilled, who feared nothing but their stern master.  Yet General Blug
was a trifle uneasy when he arrived and saw how angry the Nome King was.

"Ha!  So you're here!" cried the King.

"So I am," said the General.

"March your army at once to the Land of Oz, capture and destroy the
Emerald City, and bring back to me my Magic Belt!" roared the King.

"You're crazy," calmly remarked the General.

"What's that?  What's that?  What's that?"  And the Nome King danced
around on his pointed toes, he was so enraged.

"You don't know what you're talking about," continued the General,
seating himself upon a large cut diamond.  "I advise you to stand in a
corner and count sixty before you speak again.  By that time you may be
more sensible."

The King looked around for something to throw at General Blug, but as
nothing was handy he began to consider that perhaps the man was right
and he had been talking foolishly.  So he merely threw himself into his
glittering throne and tipped his crown over his ear and curled his feet
up under him and glared wickedly at Blug.

"In the first place," said the General, "we cannot march across the
deadly desert to the Land of Oz.  And if we could, the Ruler of that
country, Princess Ozma, has certain fairy powers that would render my
army helpless.  Had you not lost your Magic Belt we might have some
chance of defeating Ozma; but the Belt is gone."

"I want it!" screamed the King.  "I must have it."

"Well, then, let us try in a sensible way to get it," replied the
General.  "The Belt was captured by a little girl named Dorothy, who
lives in Kansas, in the United States of America."

"But she left it in the Emerald City, with Ozma," declared the King.

"How do you know that?" asked the General.

"One of my spies, who is a Blackbird, flew over the desert to the Land
of Oz, and saw the Magic Belt in Ozma's palace," replied the King with
a groan.

"Now that gives me an idea," said General Blug, thoughtfully.  "There
are two ways to get to the Land of Oz without traveling across the
sandy desert."

"What are they?" demanded the King, eagerly.

"One way is OVER the desert, through the air; and the other way is
UNDER the desert, through the earth."

Hearing this the Nome King uttered a yell of joy and leaped from his
throne, to resume his wild walk up and down the cavern.

"That's it, Blug!" he shouted.  "That's the idea, General!  I'm King of
the Under World, and my subjects are all miners.  I'll make a secret
tunnel under the desert to the Land of Oz--yes! right up to the Emerald
City--and you will march your armies there and capture the whole
country!"

"Softly, softly, your Majesty.  Don't go too fast," warned the General.
"My Nomes are good fighters, but they are not strong enough to conquer
the Emerald City."

"Are you sure?" asked the King.

"Absolutely certain, your Majesty."

"Then what am I to do?"

"Give up the idea and mind your own business," advised the General.
"You have plenty to do trying to rule your underground kingdom."

"But I want the Magic Belt--and I'm going to have it!" roared the Nome
King.

"I'd like to see you get it," replied the General, laughing maliciously.

The King was by this time so exasperated that he picked up his scepter,
which had a heavy ball, made from a sapphire, at the end of it, and
threw it with all his force at General Blug.  The sapphire hit the
General upon his forehead and knocked him flat upon the ground, where
he lay motionless.  Then the King rang his gong and told his guards to
drag out the General and throw him away; which they did.

This Nome King was named Roquat the Red, and no one loved him.  He was
a bad man and a powerful monarch, and he had resolved to destroy the
Land of Oz and its magnificent Emerald City, to enslave Princess Ozma
and little Dorothy and all the Oz people, and recover his Magic Belt.
This same Belt had once enabled Roquat the Red to carry out many wicked
plans; but that was before Ozma and her people marched to the
underground cavern and captured it.  The Nome King could not forgive
Dorothy or Princess Ozma, and he had determined to be revenged upon
them.

But they, for their part, did not know they had so dangerous an enemy.
Indeed, Ozma and Dorothy had both almost forgotten that such a person
as the Nome King yet lived under the mountains of the Land of Ev--which
lay just across the deadly desert to the south of the Land of Oz.

An unsuspected enemy is doubly dangerous.



2.  How Uncle Henry Got Into Trouble

Dorothy Gale lived on a farm in Kansas, with her Aunt Em and her Uncle
Henry.  It was not a big farm, nor a very good one, because sometimes
the rain did not come when the crops needed it, and then everything
withered and dried up.  Once a cyclone had carried away Uncle Henry's
house, so that he was obliged to build another; and as he was a poor
man he had to mortgage his farm to get the money to pay for the new
house.  Then his health became bad and he was too feeble to work.  The
doctor ordered him to take a sea voyage and he went to Australia and
took Dorothy with him.  That cost a lot of money, too.

Uncle Henry grew poorer every year, and the crops raised on the farm
only bought food for the family.  Therefore the mortgage could not be
paid.  At last the banker who had loaned him the money said that if he
did not pay on a certain day, his farm would be taken away from him.

This worried Uncle Henry a good deal, for without the farm he would
have no way to earn a living.  He was a good man, and worked in the
field as hard as he could; and Aunt Em did all the housework, with
Dorothy's help.  Yet they did not seem to get along.

This little girl, Dorothy, was like dozens of little girls you know.
She was loving and usually sweet-tempered, and had a round rosy face
and earnest eyes.  Life was a serious thing to Dorothy, and a wonderful
thing, too, for she had encountered more strange adventures in her
short life than many other girls of her age.

Aunt Em once said she thought the fairies must have marked Dorothy at
her birth, because she had wandered into strange places and had always
been protected by some unseen power.  As for Uncle Henry, he thought
his little niece merely a dreamer, as her dead mother had been, for he
could not quite believe all the curious stories Dorothy told them of
the Land of Oz, which she had several times visited.  He did not think
that she tried to deceive her uncle and aunt, but he imagined that she
had dreamed all of those astonishing adventures, and that the dreams
had been so real to her that she had come to believe them true.

Whatever the explanation might be, it was certain that Dorothy had been
absent from her Kansas home for several long periods, always
disappearing unexpectedly, yet always coming back safe and sound, with
amazing tales of where she had been and the unusual people she had met.
Her uncle and aunt listened to her stories eagerly and in spite of
their doubts began to feel that the little girl had gained a lot of
experience and wisdom that were unaccountable in this age, when fairies
are supposed no longer to exist.

Most of Dorothy's stories were about the Land of Oz, with its beautiful
Emerald City and a lovely girl Ruler named Ozma, who was the most
faithful friend of the little Kansas girl.  When Dorothy told about the
riches of this fairy country Uncle Henry would sigh, for he knew that a
single one of the great emeralds that were so common there would pay
all his debts and leave his farm free.  But Dorothy never brought any
jewels home with her, so their poverty became greater every year.

When the banker told Uncle Henry that he must pay the money in thirty
days or leave the farm, the poor man was in despair, as he knew he
could not possibly get the money.  So he told his wife, Aunt Em, of his
trouble, and she first cried a little and then said that they must be
brave and do the best they could, and go away somewhere and try to earn
an honest living.  But they were getting old and feeble and she feared
that they could not take care of Dorothy as well as they had formerly
done.  Probably the little girl would also be obliged to go to work.

They did not tell their niece the sad news for several days, not
wishing to make her unhappy; but one morning the little girl found Aunt
Em softly crying while Uncle Henry tried to comfort her.  Then Dorothy
asked them to tell her what was the matter.

"We must give up the farm, my dear," replied her uncle sadly, "and
wander away into the world to work for our living."

The girl listened quite seriously, for she had not known before how
desperately poor they were.

"We don't mind for ourselves," said her aunt, stroking the little
girl's head tenderly; "but we love you as if you were our own child,
and we are heart-broken to think that you must also endure poverty, and
work for a living before you have grown big and strong."

"What could I do to earn money?" asked Dorothy.

"You might do housework for some one, dear, you are so handy; or
perhaps you could be a nurse-maid to little children.  I'm sure I don't
know exactly what you CAN do to earn money, but if your uncle and I are
able to support you we will do it willingly, and send you to school.
We fear, though, that we shall have much trouble in earning a living
for ourselves.  No one wants to employ old people who are broken down
in health, as we are."

Dorothy smiled.

"Wouldn't it be funny," she said, "for me to do housework in Kansas,
when I'm a Princess in the Land of Oz?"

"A Princess!" they both exclaimed, astonished.

"Yes; Ozma made me a Princess some time ago, and she has often begged
me to come and live always in the Emerald City," said the child.

Her uncle and aunt looked at her in amazement.  Then the man said:

"Do you suppose you could manage to return to your fairyland, my dear?"

"Oh yes," replied Dorothy; "I could do that easily."

"How?" asked Aunt Em.

"Ozma sees me every day at four o'clock, in her Magic Picture.  She can
see me wherever I am, no matter what I am doing.  And at that time, if
I make a certain secret sign, she will send for me by means of the
Magic Belt, which I once captured from the Nome King.  Then, in the
wink of an eye, I shall be with Ozma in her palace."

The elder people remained silent for some time after Dorothy had
spoken.  Finally, Aunt Em said, with another sigh of regret:

"If that is the case, Dorothy, perhaps you'd better go and live in the
Emerald City.  It will break our hearts to lose you from our lives, but
you will be so much better off with your fairy friends that it seems
wisest and best for you to go."

"I'm not so sure about that," remarked Uncle Henry, shaking his gray
head doubtfully.  "These things all seem real to Dorothy, I know; but
I'm afraid our little girl won't find her fairyland just what she had
dreamed it to be.  It would make me very unhappy to think that she was
wandering among strangers who might be unkind to her."

Dorothy laughed merrily at this speech, and then she became very sober
again, for she could see how all this trouble was worrying her aunt and
uncle, and knew that unless she found a way to help them their future
lives would be quite miserable and unhappy.  She knew that she COULD
help them.  She had thought of a way already.  Yet she did not tell
them at once what it was, because she must ask Ozma's consent before
she would be able to carry out her plans.

So she only said:

"If you will promise not to worry a bit about me, I'll go to the Land
of Oz this very afternoon.  And I'll make a promise, too; that you
shall both see me again before the day comes when you must leave this
farm."

"The day isn't far away, now," her uncle sadly replied.  "I did not
tell you of our trouble until I was obliged to, dear Dorothy, so the
evil time is near at hand.  But if you are quite sure your fairy
friends will give you a home, it will be best for you to go to them, as
your aunt says."

That was why Dorothy went to her little room in the attic that
afternoon, taking with her a small dog named Toto.  The dog had curly
black hair and big brown eyes and loved Dorothy very dearly.

The child had kissed her uncle and aunt affectionately before she went
upstairs, and now she looked around her little room rather wistfully,
gazing at the simple trinkets and worn calico and gingham dresses, as
if they were old friends.  She was tempted at first to make a bundle of
them, yet she knew very well that they would be of no use to her in her
future life.

She sat down upon a broken-backed chair--the only one the room
contained--and holding Toto in her arms waited patiently until the
clock struck four.

Then she made the secret signal that had been agreed upon between her
and Ozma.

Uncle Henry and Aunt Em waited downstairs.  They were uneasy and a good
deal excited, for this is a practical humdrum world, and it seemed to
them quite impossible that their little niece could vanish from her
home and travel instantly to fairyland.

So they watched the stairs, which seemed to be the only way that
Dorothy could get out of the farmhouse, and they watched them a long
time.  They heard the clock strike four but there was no sound from
above.

Half-past four came, and now they were too impatient to wait any
longer.  Softly, they crept up the stairs to the door of the little
girl's room.

"Dorothy!  Dorothy!" they called.

There was no answer.

They opened the door and looked in.

The room was empty.



3.  How Ozma Granted Dorothy's Request

I suppose you have read so much about the magnificent Emerald City that
there is little need for me to describe it here.  It is the Capital
City of the Land of Oz, which is justly considered the most attractive
and delightful fairyland in all the world.

The Emerald City is built all of beautiful marbles in which are set a
profusion of emeralds, every one exquisitely cut and of very great
size.  There are other jewels used in the decorations inside the houses
and palaces, such as rubies, diamonds, sapphires, amethysts and
turquoises.  But in the streets and upon the outside of the buildings
only emeralds appear, from which circumstance the place is named the
Emerald City of Oz.  It has nine thousand, six hundred and fifty-four
buildings, in which lived fifty-seven thousand three hundred and
eighteen people, up to the time my story opens.

All the surrounding country, extending to the borders of the desert
which enclosed it upon every side, was full of pretty and comfortable
farmhouses, in which resided those inhabitants of Oz who preferred
country to city life.

Altogether there were more than half a million people in the Land of
Oz--although some of them, as you will soon learn, were not made of
flesh and blood as we are--and every inhabitant of that favored country
was happy and prosperous.

No disease of any sort was ever known among the Ozites, and so no one
ever died unless he met with an accident that prevented him from
living.  This happened very seldom, indeed.  There were no poor people
in the Land of Oz, because there was no such thing as money, and all
property of every sort belonged to the Ruler.  The people were her
children, and she cared for them.  Each person was given freely by his
neighbors whatever he required for his use, which is as much as any one
may reasonably desire.  Some tilled the lands and raised great crops of
grain, which was divided equally among the entire population, so that
all had enough.  There were many tailors and dressmakers and shoemakers
and the like, who made things that any who desired them might wear.
Likewise there were jewelers who made ornaments for the person, which
pleased and beautified the people, and these ornaments also were free
to those who asked for them.  Each man and woman, no matter what he or
she produced for the good of the community, was supplied by the
neighbors with food and clothing and a house and furniture and
ornaments and games.  If by chance the supply ever ran short, more was
taken from the great storehouses of the Ruler, which were afterward
filled up again when there was more of any article than the people
needed.

Every one worked half the time and played half the time, and the people
enjoyed the work as much as they did the play, because it is good to be
occupied and to have something to do.  There were no cruel overseers
set to watch them, and no one to rebuke them or to find fault with
them.  So each one was proud to do all he could for his friends and
neighbors, and was glad when they would accept the things he produced.

You will know by what I have here told you, that the Land of Oz was a
remarkable country.  I do not suppose such an arrangement would be
practical with us, but Dorothy assures me that it works finely with the
Oz people.

Oz being a fairy country, the people were, of course, fairy people; but
that does not mean that all of them were very unlike the people of our
own world.  There were all sorts of queer characters among them, but
not a single one who was evil, or who possessed a selfish or violent
nature.  They were peaceful, kind hearted, loving and merry, and every
inhabitant adored the beautiful girl who ruled them and delighted to
obey her every command.

In spite of all I have said in a general way, there were some parts of
the Land of Oz not quite so pleasant as the farming country and the
Emerald City which was its center.  Far away in the South Country there
lived in the mountains a band of strange people called Hammer-Heads,
because they had no arms and used their flat heads to pound any one who
came near them.  Their necks were like rubber, so that they could shoot
out their heads to quite a distance, and afterward draw them back again
to their shoulders.  The Hammer-Heads were called the "Wild People,"
but never harmed any but those who disturbed them in the mountains
where they lived.

In some of the dense forests there lived great beasts of every sort;
yet these were for the most part harmless and even sociable, and
conversed agreeably with those who visited their haunts.  The
Kalidahs--beasts with bodies like bears and heads like tigers--had once
been fierce and bloodthirsty, but even they were now nearly all tamed,
although at times one or another of them would get cross and
disagreeable.

Not so tame were the Fighting Trees, which had a forest of their own.
If any one approached them these curious trees would bend down their
branches, twine them around the intruders, and hurl them away.

But these unpleasant things existed only in a few remote parts of the
Land of Oz.  I suppose every country has some drawbacks, so even this
almost perfect fairyland could not be quite perfect.  Once there had
been wicked witches in the land, too; but now these had all been
destroyed; so, as I said, only peace and happiness reigned in Oz.

For some time Ozma had ruled over this fair country, and never was
Ruler more popular or beloved.  She is said to be the most beautiful
girl the world has ever known, and her heart and mind are as lovely as
her person.

Dorothy Gale had several times visited the Emerald City and experienced
adventures in the Land of Oz, so that she and Ozma had now become firm
friends.  The girl Ruler had even made Dorothy a Princess of Oz, and
had often implored her to come to Ozma's stately palace and live there
always; but Dorothy had been loyal to her Aunt Em and Uncle Henry, who
had cared for her since she was a baby, and she had refused to leave
them because she knew they would be lonely without her.

However, Dorothy now realized that things were going to be different
with her uncle and aunt from this time forth, so after giving the
matter deep thought she decided to ask Ozma to grant her a very great
favor.

A few seconds after she had made the secret signal in her little
bedchamber, the Kansas girl was seated in a lovely room in Ozma's
palace in the Emerald City of Oz.  When the first loving kisses and
embraces had been exchanged, the fair Ruler inquired:

"What is the matter, dear?  I know something unpleasant has happened to
you, for your face was very sober when I saw it in my Magic Picture.
And whenever you signal me to transport you to this safe place, where
you are always welcome, I know you are in danger or in trouble."

Dorothy sighed.

"This time, Ozma, it isn't I," she replied.  "But it's worse, I guess,
for Uncle Henry and Aunt Em are in a heap of trouble, and there seems
no way for them to get out of it--anyhow, not while they live in
Kansas."

"Tell me about it, Dorothy," said Ozma, with ready sympathy.

"Why, you see Uncle Henry is poor; for the farm in Kansas doesn't
'mount to much, as farms go.  So one day Uncle Henry borrowed some
money, and wrote a letter saying that if he didn't pay the money back
they could take his farm for pay.  Course he 'spected to pay by making
money from the farm; but he just couldn't.  An' so they're going to
take the farm, and Uncle Henry and Aunt Em won't have any place to
live.  They're pretty old to do much hard work, Ozma; so I'll have to
work for them, unless--"

Ozma had been thoughtful during the story, but now she smiled and
pressed her little friend's hand.

"Unless what, dear?" she asked.

Dorothy hesitated, because her request meant so much to them all.

"Well," said she, "I'd like to live here in the Land of Oz, where
you've often 'vited me to live.  But I can't, you know, unless Uncle
Henry and Aunt Em could live here too."

"Of course not," exclaimed the Ruler of Oz, laughing gaily.  "So, in
order to get you, little friend, we must invite your Uncle and Aunt to
live in Oz, also."

"Oh, will you, Ozma?" cried Dorothy, clasping her chubby little hands
eagerly.  "Will you bring them here with the Magic Belt, and give them
a nice little farm in the Munchkin Country, or the Winkie Country--or
some other place?"

"To be sure," answered Ozma, full of joy at the chance to please her
little friend.  "I have long been thinking of this very thing, Dorothy
dear, and often I have had it in my mind to propose it to you.  I am
sure your uncle and aunt must be good and worthy people, or you would
not love them so much; and for YOUR friends, Princess, there is always
room in the Land of Oz."

Dorothy was delighted, yet not altogether surprised, for she had clung
to the hope that Ozma would be kind enough to grant her request.  When,
indeed, had her powerful and faithful friend refused her anything?

"But you must not call me 'Princess'," she said; "for after this I
shall live on the little farm with Uncle Henry and Aunt Em, and
princesses ought not to live on farms."

"Princess Dorothy will not," replied Ozma with her sweet smile.  "You
are going to live in your own rooms in this palace, and be my constant
companion."

"But Uncle Henry--" began Dorothy.

"Oh, he is old, and has worked enough in his lifetime," interrupted the
girl Ruler; "so we must find a place for your uncle and aunt where they
will be comfortable and happy and need not work more than they care to.
When shall we transport them here, Dorothy?"

"I promised to go and see them again before they were turned out of the
farmhouse," answered Dorothy; "so--perhaps next Saturday--"

"But why wait so long?" asked Ozma.  "And why make the journey back to
Kansas again?  Let us surprise them, and bring them here without any
warning."

"I'm not sure that they believe in the Land of Oz," said Dorothy,
"though I've told 'em 'bout it lots of times."

"They'll believe when they see it," declared Ozma; "and if they are
told they are to make a magical journey to our fairyland, it may make
them nervous.  I think the best way will be to use the Magic Belt
without warning them, and when they have arrived you can explain to
them whatever they do not understand."

"Perhaps that's best," decided Dorothy.  "There isn't much use in their
staying at the farm until they are put out, 'cause it's much nicer
here."

"Then to-morrow morning they shall come here," said Princess Ozma.  "I
will order Jellia Jamb, who is the palace housekeeper, to have rooms
all prepared for them, and after breakfast we will get the Magic Belt
and by its aid transport your uncle and aunt to the Emerald City."

"Thank you, Ozma!" cried Dorothy, kissing her friend gratefully.

"And now," Ozma proposed, "let us take a walk in the gardens before we
dress for dinner.  Come, Dorothy dear!"



4.  How The Nome King Planned Revenge

The reason most people are bad is because they do not try to be good.
Now, the Nome King had never tried to be good, so he was very bad
indeed.  Having decided to conquer the Land of Oz and to destroy the
Emerald City and enslave all its people, King Roquat the Red kept
planning ways to do this dreadful thing, and the more he planned the
more he believed he would be able to accomplish it.

About the time Dorothy went to Ozma the Nome King called his Chief
Steward to him and said:

"Kaliko, I think I shall make you the General of my armies."

"I think you won't," replied Kaliko, positively.

"Why not?" inquired the King, reaching for his scepter with the big
sapphire.

"Because I'm your Chief Steward and know nothing of warfare," said
Kaliko, preparing to dodge if anything were thrown at him.  "I manage
all the affairs of your kingdom better than you could yourself, and
you'll never find another Steward as good as I am.  But there are a
hundred Nomes better fitted to command your army, and your Generals get
thrown away so often that I have no desire to be one of them."

"Ah, there is some truth in your remarks, Kaliko," remarked the King,
deciding not to throw the scepter.  "Summon my army to assemble in the
Great Cavern."

Kaliko bowed and retired, and in a few minutes returned to say that the
army was assembled.  So the King went out upon a balcony that
overlooked the Great Cavern, where fifty thousand Nomes, all armed with
swords and pikes, stood marshaled in military array.

When they were not required as soldiers all these Nomes were metal
workers and miners, and they had hammered so much at the forges and dug
so hard with pick and shovel that they had acquired great muscular
strength.  They were strangely formed creatures, rather round and not
very tall.  Their toes were curly and their ears broad and flat.

In time of war every Nome left his forge or mine and became part of the
great army of King Roquat.  The soldiers wore rock-colored uniforms and
were excellently drilled.

The King looked upon this tremendous army, which stood silently arrayed
before him, and a cruel smile curled the corners of his mouth, for he
saw that his legions were very powerful.  Then he addressed them from
the balcony, saying:

"I have thrown away General Blug, because he did not please me.  So I
want another General to command this army.  Who is next in command?"

"I am," replied Colonel Crinkle, a dapper-looking Nome, as he stepped
forward to salute his monarch.

The King looked at him carefully and said:

"I want you to march this army through an underground tunnel, which I
am going to bore, to the Emerald City of Oz.  When you get there I want
you to conquer the Oz people, destroy them and their city, and bring
all their gold and silver and precious stones back to my cavern.  Also
you are to recapture my Magic Belt and return it to me.  Will you do
this, General Crinkle?"

"No, your Majesty," replied the Nome; "for it can't be done."

"Oh indeed!" exclaimed the King.  Then he turned to his servants and
said: "Please take General Crinkle to the torture chamber.  There you
will kindly slice him into thin slices.  Afterward you may feed him to
the seven-headed dogs."

"Anything to oblige your Majesty," replied the servants, politely, and
led the condemned man away.

When they had gone, the King addressed the army again.

"Listen!" said he.  "The General who is to command my armies must
promise to carry out my orders.  If he fails he will share the fate of
poor Crinkle.  Now, then, who will volunteer to lead my hosts to the
Emerald City?"

For a time no one moved and all were silent.  Then an old Nome with
white whiskers so long that they were tied around his waist to prevent
their tripping him up, stepped out of the ranks and saluted the King.

"I'd like to ask a few questions, your Majesty," he said.

"Go ahead," replied the King.

"These Oz people are quite good, are they not?"

"As good as apple pie," said the King.

"And they are happy, I suppose?" continued the old Nome.

"Happy as the day is long," said the King.

"And contented and prosperous?" inquired the Nome.

"Very much so," said the King.

"Well, your Majesty," remarked he of the white whiskers, "I think I
should like to undertake the job, so I'll be your General.  I hate good
people; I detest happy people; I'm opposed to any one who is contented
and prosperous.  That is why I am so fond of your Majesty.  Make me
your General and I'll promise to conquer and destroy the Oz people.  If
I fail I'm ready to be sliced thin and fed to the seven-headed dogs."

"Very good!  Very good, indeed!  That's the way to talk!" cried Roquat
the Red, who was greatly pleased.  "What is your name, General?"

"I'm called Guph, your Majesty."

"Well, Guph, come with me to my private cave, and we'll talk it over."
Then he turned to the army.  "Nomes and soldiers," said he, "you are to
obey the commands of General Guph until he becomes dog-feed.  Any man
who fails to obey his new General will be promptly thrown away.  You
are now dismissed."

Guph went to the King's private cave and sat down upon an amethyst
chair and put his feet on the arm of the King's ruby throne.  Then he
lighted his pipe and threw the live coal he had taken from his pocket
upon the King's left foot and puffed the smoke into the King's eyes and
made himself comfortable.  For he was a wise old Nome, and he knew that
the best way to get along with Roquat the Red was to show that he was
not afraid of him.

"I'm ready for the talk, your Majesty," he said.

The King coughed and looked at his new General fiercely.

"Do you not tremble to take such liberties with your monarch?" he asked.

"Oh no," replied Guph, calmly, and he blew a wreath of smoke that
curled around the King's nose and made him sneeze.  "You want to
conquer the Emerald City, and I'm the only Nome in all your dominions
who can conquer it.  So you will be very careful not to hurt me until I
have carried out your wishes.  After that--"

"Well, what then?" inquired the King.

"Then you will be so grateful to me that you won't care to hurt me,"
replied the General.

"That is a very good argument," said Roquat.  "But suppose you fail?"

"Then it's the slicing machine.  I agree to that," announced Guph.
"But if you do as I tell you there will be no failure.  The trouble
with you, Roquat, is that you don't think carefully enough.  I do.  You
would go ahead and march through your tunnel into Oz, and get defeated
and driven back.  I won't.  And the reason I won't is because when I
march I'll have all my plans made, and a host of allies to assist my
Nomes."

"What do you mean by that?" asked the King.

"I'll explain, King Roquat.  You're going to attack a fairy country,
and a mighty fairy country, too.  They haven't much of an army in Oz,
but the Princess who ruled them has a fairy wand; and the little girl
Dorothy has your Magic Belt; and at the North of the Emerald City lives
a clever sorceress called Glinda the Good, who commands the spirits of
the air.  Also I have heard that there is a wonderful Wizard in Ozma's
palace, who is so skillful that people used to pay him money in America
to see him perform.  So you see it will be no easy thing to overcome
all this magic."

"We have fifty thousand soldiers!" cried the King proudly.

"Yes; but they are Nomes," remarked Guph, taking a silk handkerchief
from the King's pocket and wiping his own pointed shoes with it.
"Nomes are immortals, but they are not strong on magic.  When you lost
your famous Belt the greater part of your own power was gone from you.
Against Ozma you and your Nomes would have no show at all."

Roquat's eyes flashed angrily.

"Then away you go to the slicing machine!" he cried.

"Not yet," said the General, filling his pipe from the King's private
tobacco pouch.

"What do you propose to do?" asked the monarch.

"I propose to obtain the power we need," answered Guph.  "There are a
good many evil creatures who have magic powers sufficient to destroy
and conquer the Land of Oz.  We will get them on our side, band them
all together, and then take Ozma and her people by surprise.  It's all
very simple and easy when you know how.  Alone, we should be helpless
to injure the Ruler of Oz, but with the aid of the evil powers we can
summon we shall easily succeed."

King Roquat was delighted with this idea, for he realized how clever it
was.

"Surely, Guph, you are the greatest General I have ever had!" he
exclaimed, his eyes sparkling with joy.  "You must go at once and make
arrangements with the evil powers to assist us, and meantime I'll begin
to dig the tunnel."

"I thought you'd agree with me, Roquat," replied the new General.
"I'll start this very afternoon to visit the Chief of the Whimsies."



5.  How Dorothy Became a Princess

When the people of the Emerald City heard that Dorothy had returned to
them every one was eager to see her, for the little girl was a general
favorite in the Land of Oz.  From time to time some of the folk from
the great outside world had found their way into this fairyland, but
all except one had been companions of Dorothy and had turned out to be
very agreeable people.  The exception I speak of was the wonderful
Wizard of Oz, a sleight-of-hand performer from Omaha who went up in a
balloon and was carried by a current of air to the Emerald City.  His
queer and puzzling tricks made the people of Oz believe him a great
wizard for a time, and he ruled over them until Dorothy arrived on her
first visit and showed the Wizard to be a mere humbug.  He was a
gentle, kind-hearted little man, and Dorothy grew to like him
afterward.  When, after an absence, the Wizard returned to the Land of
Oz, Ozma received him graciously and gave him a home in a part of the
palace.

In addition to the Wizard two other personages from the outside world
had been allowed to make their home in the Emerald City.  The first was
a quaint Shaggy Man, whom Ozma had made the Governor of the Royal
Storehouses, and the second a Yellow Hen named Billina, who had a fine
house in the gardens back of the palace, where she looked after a large
family.  Both these had been old comrades of Dorothy, so you see the
little girl was quite an important personage in Oz, and the people
thought she had brought them good luck, and loved her next best to
Ozma.  During her several visits this little girl had been the means of
destroying two wicked witches who oppressed the people, and she had
discovered a live scarecrow who was now one of the most popular
personages in all the fairy country.  With the Scarecrow's help she had
rescued Nick Chopper, a Tin Woodman, who had rusted in a lonely forest,
and the tin man was now the Emperor of the Country of the Winkies and
much beloved because of his kind heart.  No wonder the people thought
Dorothy had brought them good luck!  Yet, strange as it may seem, she
had accomplished all these wonders not because she was a fairy or had
any magical powers whatever, but because she was a simple, sweet and
true little girl who was honest to herself and to all whom she met.  In
this world in which we live simplicity and kindness are the only magic
wands that work wonders, and in the Land of Oz Dorothy found these same
qualities had won for her the love and admiration of the people.
Indeed, the little girl had made many warm friends in the fairy
country, and the only real grief the Ozites had ever experienced was
when Dorothy left them and returned to her Kansas home.

Now she received a joyful welcome, although no one except Ozma knew at
first that she had finally come to stay for good and all.

That evening Dorothy had many callers, and among them were such
important people as Tiktok, a machine man who thought and spoke and
moved by clockwork; her old companion the genial Shaggy Man; Jack
Pumpkinhead, whose body was brush-wood and whose head was a ripe
pumpkin with a face carved upon it; the Cowardly Lion and the Hungry
Tiger, two great beasts from the forest, who served Princess Ozma, and
Professor H. M. Wogglebug, T.E.  This wogglebug was a remarkable
creature.  He had once been a tiny little bug, crawling around in a
school-room, but he was discovered and highly magnified so that he
could be seen more plainly, and while in this magnified condition he
had escaped.  He had always remained big, and he dressed like a dandy
and was so full of knowledge and information (which are distinct
acquirements) that he had been made a Professor and the head of the
Royal College.

Dorothy had a nice visit with these old friends, and also talked a long
time with the Wizard, who was little and old and withered and dried up,
but as merry and active as a child.  Afterward, she went to see
Billina's fast-growing family of chicks.

Toto, Dorothy's little black dog, also met with a cordial reception.
Toto was an especial friend of the Shaggy Man, and he knew every one
else.  Being the only dog in the Land of Oz, he was highly respected by
the people, who believed animals entitled to every consideration if
they behaved themselves properly.

Dorothy had four lovely rooms in the palace, which were always reserved
for her use and were called "Dorothy's rooms."  These consisted of a
beautiful sitting room, a dressing room, a dainty bedchamber and a big
marble bathroom.  And in these rooms were everything that heart could
desire, placed there with loving thoughtfulness by Ozma for her little
friend's use.  The royal dressmakers had the little girl's measure, so
they kept the closets in her dressing room filled with lovely dresses
of every description and suitable for every occasion.  No wonder
Dorothy had refrained from bringing with her her old calico and gingham
dresses!  Here everything that was dear to a little girl's heart was
supplied in profusion, and nothing so rich and beautiful could ever
have been found in the biggest department stores in America.  Of course
Dorothy enjoyed all these luxuries, and the only reason she had
heretofore preferred to live in Kansas was because her uncle and aunt
loved her and needed her with them.

Now, however, all was to be changed, and Dorothy was really more
delighted to know that her dear relatives were to share in her good
fortune and enjoy the delights of the Land of Oz, than she was to
possess such luxury for herself.

Next morning, at Ozma's request, Dorothy dressed herself in a pretty
sky-blue gown of rich silk, trimmed with real pearls.  The buckles of
her shoes were set with pearls, too, and more of these priceless gems
were on a lovely coronet which she wore upon her forehead.  "For," said
her friend Ozma, "from this time forth, my dear, you must assume your
rightful rank as a Princess of Oz, and being my chosen companion you
must dress in a way befitting the dignity of your position."

Dorothy agreed to this, although she knew that neither gowns nor jewels
could make her anything else than the simple, unaffected little girl
she had always been.

As soon as they had breakfasted--the girls eating together in Ozma's
pretty boudoir--the Ruler of Oz said:

"Now, dear friend, we will use the Magic Belt to transport your uncle
and aunt from Kansas to the Emerald City.  But I think it would be
fitting, in receiving such distinguished guests, for us to sit in my
Throne Room."

"Oh, they're not very 'stinguished, Ozma," said Dorothy.  "They're just
plain people, like me."

"Being your friends and relatives, Princess Dorothy, they are certainly
distinguished," replied the Ruler, with a smile.

"They--they won't hardly know what to make of all your splendid
furniture and things," protested Dorothy, gravely.  "It may scare 'em
to see your grand Throne Room, an' p'raps we'd better go into the back
yard, Ozma, where the cabbages grow an' the chickens are playing.  Then
it would seem more natural to Uncle Henry and Aunt Em."

"No; they shall first see me in my Throne Room," replied Ozma,
decidedly; and when she spoke in that tone Dorothy knew it was not wise
to oppose her, for Ozma was accustomed to having her own way.

So together they went to the Throne Room, an immense domed chamber in
the center of the palace.  Here stood the royal throne, made of solid
gold and encrusted with enough precious stones to stock a dozen jewelry
stores in our country.

Ozma, who was wearing the Magic Belt, seated herself in the throne, and
Dorothy sat at her feet.  In the room were assembled many ladies and
gentlemen of the court, clothed in rich apparel and wearing fine
jewelry.  Two immense animals squatted, one on each side of the
throne--the Cowardly Lion and the Hungry Tiger.  In a balcony high up
in the dome an orchestra played sweet music, and beneath the dome two
electric fountains sent sprays of colored perfumed water shooting up
nearly as high as the arched ceiling.

"Are you ready, Dorothy?" asked the Ruler.

"I am," replied Dorothy; "but I don't know whether Aunt Em and Uncle
Henry are ready."

"That won't matter," declared Ozma.  "The old life can have very little
to interest them, and the sooner they begin the new life here the
happier they will be.  Here they come, my dear!"

As she spoke, there before the throne appeared Uncle Henry and Aunt Em,
who for a moment stood motionless, glaring with white and startled
faces at the scene that confronted them.  If the ladies and gentlemen
present had not been so polite I am sure they would have laughed at the
two strangers.

Aunt Em had her calico dress skirt "tucked up," and she wore a faded,
blue-checked apron.  Her hair was rather straggly and she had on a pair
of Uncle Henry's old slippers.  In one hand she held a dish-towel and
in the other a cracked earthenware plate, which she had been engaged in
wiping when so suddenly transported to the Land of Oz.

Uncle Henry, when the summons came, had been out in the barn "doin'
chores."  He wore a ragged and much soiled straw hat, a checked shirt
without any collar and blue overalls tucked into the tops of his old
cowhide boots.

"By gum!" gasped Uncle Henry, looking around as if bewildered.

"Well, I swan!" gurgled Aunt Em in a hoarse, frightened voice.  Then
her eyes fell upon Dorothy, and she said: "D-d-d-don't that look like
our little girl--our Dorothy, Henry?"

"Hi, there--look out, Em!" exclaimed the old man, as Aunt Em advanced a
step; "take care o' the wild beastses, or you're a goner!"

But now Dorothy sprang forward and embraced and kissed her aunt and
uncle affectionately, afterward taking their hands in her own.

"Don't be afraid," she said to them.  "You are now in the Land of Oz,
where you are to live always, and be comfer'ble an' happy.  You'll
never have to worry over anything again, 'cause there won't be anything
to worry about.  And you owe it all to the kindness of my friend
Princess Ozma."

Here she led them before the throne and continued:

"Your Highness, this is Uncle Henry.  And this is Aunt Em.  They want
to thank you for bringing them here from Kansas."

Aunt Em tried to "slick" her hair, and she hid the dish-towel and dish
under her apron while she bowed to the lovely Ozma.  Uncle Henry took
off his straw hat and held it awkwardly in his hands.

But the Ruler of Oz rose and came from her throne to greet her newly
arrived guests, and she smiled as sweetly upon them as if they had been
a king and queen.

"You are very welcome here, where I have brought you for Princess
Dorothy's sake," she said, graciously, "and I hope you will be quite
happy in your new home."  Then she turned to her courtiers, who were
silently and gravely regarding the scene, and added: "I present to my
people our Princess Dorothy's beloved Uncle Henry and Aunt Em, who will
hereafter be subjects of our kingdom.  It will please me to have you
show them every kindness and honor in your power, and to join me in
making them happy and contented."

Hearing this, all those assembled bowed low and respectfully to the old
farmer and his wife, who bobbed their own heads in return.

"And now," said Ozma to them, "Dorothy will show you the rooms prepared
for you.  I hope you will like them, and shall expect you to join me at
luncheon."

So Dorothy led her relatives away, and as soon as they were out of the
Throne Room and alone in the corridor, Aunt Em squeezed Dorothy's hand
and said:

"Child, child!  How in the world did we ever get here so quick?  And is
it all real?  And are we to stay here, as she says?  And what does it
all mean, anyhow?"

Dorothy laughed.

"Why didn't you tell us what you were goin' to do?" inquired Uncle
Henry, reproachfully.  "If I'd known about it, I'd 'a put on my Sunday
clothes."

"I'll 'splain ever'thing as soon as we get to your rooms," promised
Dorothy.  "You're in great luck, Uncle Henry and Aunt Em; an' so am I!
And oh! I'm so happy to have got you here, at last!"

As he walked by the little girl's side, Uncle Henry stroked his
whiskers thoughtfully.  "'Pears to me, Dorothy, we won't make bang-up
fairies," he remarked.

"An' my back hair looks like a fright!" wailed Aunt Em.

"Never mind," returned the little girl, reassuringly.  "You won't have
anything to do now but to look pretty, Aunt Em; an' Uncle Henry won't
have to work till his back aches, that's certain."

"Sure?" they asked, wonderingly, and in the same breath.

"Course I'm sure," said Dorothy.  "You're in the Fairyland of Oz, now;
an' what's more, you belong to it!"



6.  How Guph Visited the Whimsies

The new General of the Nome King's army knew perfectly well that to
fail in his plans meant death for him.  Yet he was not at all anxious
or worried.  He hated every one who was good and longed to make all who
were happy unhappy.  Therefore he had accepted this dangerous position
as General quite willingly, feeling sure in his evil mind that he would
be able to do a lot of mischief and finally conquer the Land of Oz.

Yet Guph determined to be careful, and to lay his plans well, so as not
to fail.  He argued that only careless people fail in what they attempt
to do.

The mountains underneath which the Nome King's extensive caverns were
located lay grouped just north of the Land of Ev, which lay directly
across the deadly desert to the east of the Land of Oz.  As the
mountains were also on the edge of the desert the Nome King found that
he had only to tunnel underneath the desert to reach Ozma's dominions.
He did not wish his armies to appear above ground in the Country of the
Winkies, which was the part of the Land of Oz nearest to King Roquat's
own country, as then the people would give the alarm and enable Ozma to
fortify the Emerald City and assemble an army.  He wanted to take all
the Oz people by surprise; so he decided to run the tunnel clear
through to the Emerald City, where he and his hosts could break through
the ground without warning and conquer the people before they had time
to defend themselves.

Roquat the Red began work at once upon his tunnel, setting a thousand
miners at the task and building it high and broad enough for his armies
to march through it with ease.  The Nomes were used to making tunnels,
as all the kingdom in which they lived was under ground; so they made
rapid progress.

While this work was going on General Guph started out alone to visit
the Chief of the Whimsies.

These Whimsies were curious people who lived in a retired country of
their own.  They had large, strong bodies, but heads so small that they
were no bigger than door-knobs.  Of course, such tiny heads could not
contain any great amount of brains, and the Whimsies were so ashamed of
their personal appearance and lack of commonsense that they wore big
heads made of pasteboard, which they fastened over their own little
heads.  On these pasteboard heads they sewed sheep's wool for hair, and
the wool was colored many tints--pink, green and lavender being the
favorite colors.  The faces of these false heads were painted in many
ridiculous ways, according to the whims of the owners, and these big,
burly creatures looked so whimsical and absurd in their queer masks
that they were called "Whimsies."  They foolishly imagined that no one
would suspect the little heads that were inside the imitation ones, not
knowing that it is folly to try to appear otherwise than as nature has
made us.

The Chief of the Whimsies had as little wisdom as the others, and had
been chosen chief merely because none among them was any wiser or more
capable of ruling.  The Whimsies were evil spirits and could not be
killed.  They were hated and feared by every one and were known as
terrible fighters because they were so strong and muscular and had not
sense enough to know when they were defeated.

General Guph thought the Whimsies would be a great help to the Nomes in
the conquest of Oz, for under his leadership they could be induced to
fight as long so they could stand up.  So he traveled to their country
and asked to see the Chief, who lived in a house that had a picture of
his grotesque false head painted over the doorway.

The Chief's false head had blue hair, a turned-up nose, and a mouth
that stretched half across the face.  Big green eyes had been painted
upon it, but in the center of the chin were two small holes made in the
pasteboard, so that the Chief could see through them with his own tiny
eyes; for when the big head was fastened upon his shoulders the eyes in
his own natural head were on a level with the false chin.

Said General Guph to the Chief of the Whimsies:

"We Nomes are going to conquer the Land of Oz and capture our King's
Magic Belt, which the Oz people stole from him.  Then we are going to
plunder and destroy the whole country.  And we want the Whimsies to
help us."

"Will there be any fighting?" asked the Chief.

"Plenty," replied Guph.

That must have pleased the Chief, for he got up and danced around the
room three times.  Then he seated himself again, adjusted his false
head, and said:

"We have no quarrel with Ozma of Oz."

"But you Whimsies love to fight, and here is a splendid chance to do
so," urged Guph.

"Wait till I sing a song," said the Chief.  Then he lay back in his
chair and sang a foolish song that did not seem to the General to mean
anything, although he listened carefully.  When he had finished, the
Chief Whimsie looked at him through the holes in his chin and asked:

"What reward will you give us if we help you?"

The General was prepared for this question, for he had been thinking
the matter over on his journey.  People often do a good deed without
hope of reward, but for an evil deed they always demand payment.

"When we get our Magic Belt," he made reply, "our King, Roquat the Red,
will use its power to give every Whimsie a natural head as big and fine
as the false head he now wears.  Then you will no longer be ashamed
because your big strong bodies have such teenty-weenty heads."

"Oh!  Will you do that?" asked the Chief, eagerly.

"We surely will," promised the General.

"I'll talk to my people," said the Chief.

So he called a meeting of all the Whimsies and told them of the offer
made by the Nomes.  The creatures were delighted with the bargain, and
at once agreed to fight for the Nome King and help him to conquer Oz.

One Whimsie alone seemed to have a glimmer of sense, for he asked:

"Suppose we fail to capture the Magic Belt?  What will happen then, and
what good will all our fighting do?"

But they threw him into the river for asking foolish questions, and
laughed when the water ruined his pasteboard head before he could swim
out again.

So the compact was made and General Guph was delighted with his success
in gaining such powerful allies.

But there were other people, too, just as important as the Whimsies,
whom the clever old Nome had determined to win to his side.



7.  How Aunt Em Conquered the Lion

"These are your rooms," said Dorothy, opening a door.

Aunt Em drew back at the sight of the splendid furniture and draperies.

"Ain't there any place to wipe my feet?" she asked.

"You will soon change your slippers for new shoes," replied Dorothy.
"Don't be afraid, Aunt Em.  Here is where you are to live, so walk
right in and make yourself at home."

Aunt Em advanced hesitatingly.

"It beats the Topeka Hotel!" she cried admiringly.  "But this place is
too grand for us, child.  Can't we have some back room in the attic,
that's more in our class?"

"No," said Dorothy.  "You've got to live here, 'cause Ozma says so.
And all the rooms in this palace are just as fine as these, and some
are better.  It won't do any good to fuss, Aunt Em.  You've got to be
swell and high-toned in the Land of Oz, whether you want to or not; so
you may as well make up your mind to it."

"It's hard luck," replied her aunt, looking around with an awed
expression; "but folks can get used to anything, if they try.  Eh,
Henry?"

"Why, as to that," said Uncle Henry, slowly, "I b'lieve in takin'
what's pervided us, an' askin' no questions.  I've traveled some, Em,
in my time, and you hain't; an' that makes a difference atween us."

Then Dorothy showed them through the rooms.  The first was a handsome
sitting-room, with windows opening upon the rose gardens.  Then came
separate bedrooms for Aunt Em and Uncle Henry, with a fine bathroom
between them.  Aunt Em had a pretty dressing room, besides, and Dorothy
opened the closets and showed several exquisite costumes that had been
provided for her aunt by the royal dressmakers, who had worked all
night to get them ready.  Everything that Aunt Em could possibly need
was in the drawers and closets, and her dressing-table was covered with
engraved gold toilet articles.

Uncle Henry had nine suits of clothes, cut in the popular Munchkin
fashion, with knee-breeches, silk stockings, and low shoes with jeweled
buckles.  The hats to match these costumes had pointed tops and wide
brims with small gold bells around the edges.  His shirts were of fine
linen with frilled bosoms, and his vests were richly embroidered with
colored silks.

Uncle Henry decided that he would first take a bath and then dress
himself in a blue satin suit that had caught his fancy.  He accepted
his good fortune with calm composure and refused to have a servant to
assist him.  But Aunt Em was "all of a flutter," as she said, and it
took Dorothy and Jellia Jamb, the housekeeper, and two maids a long
time to dress her and do up her hair and get her "rigged like a
popinjay," as she quaintly expressed it.  She wanted to stop and admire
everything that caught her eye, and she sighed continually and declared
that such finery was too good for an old country woman, and that she
never thought she would have to "put on airs" at her time of life.

Finally she was dressed, and when she went into the sitting-room there
was Uncle Henry in his blue satin, walking gravely up and down the
room.  He had trimmed his beard and mustache and looked very dignified
and respectable.

"Tell me, Dorothy," he said; "do all the men here wear duds like these?"

"Yes," she replied; "all 'cept the Scarecrow and the Shaggy Man--and of
course the Tin Woodman and Tiktok, who are made of metal.  You'll find
all the men at Ozma's court dressed just as you are--only perhaps a
little finer."

"Henry, you look like a play-actor," announced Aunt Em, looking at her
husband critically.

"An' you, Em, look more highfalutin' than a peacock," he replied.

"I guess you're right," she said regretfully; "but we're helpless
victims of high-toned royalty."

Dorothy was much amused.

"Come with me," she said, "and I'll show you 'round the palace."

She took them through the beautiful rooms and introduced them to all
the people they chanced to meet.  Also she showed them her own pretty
rooms, which were not far from their own.

"So it's all true," said Aunt Em, wide-eyed with amazement, "and what
Dorothy told us of this fairy country was plain facts instead of
dreams!  But where are all the strange creatures you used to know here?"

"Yes, where's the Scarecrow?" inquired Uncle Henry.

"Why, he's just now away on a visit to the Tin Woodman, who is Emp'ror
of the Winkie Country," answered the little girl.  "You'll see him when
he comes back, and you're sure to like him."

"And where's the Wonderful Wizard?" asked Aunt Em.

"You'll see him at Ozma's luncheon, for he lives here in this palace,"
was the reply.

"And Jack Pumpkinhead?"

"Oh, he lives a little way out of town, in his own pumpkin field.
We'll go there some time and see him, and we'll call on Professor
Wogglebug, too.  The Shaggy Man will be at the luncheon, I guess, and
Tiktok.  And now I'll take you out to see Billina, who has a house of
her own."

So they went into the back yard, and after walking along winding paths
some distance through the beautiful gardens they came to an attractive
little house where the Yellow Hen sat on the front porch sunning
herself.

"Good morning, my dear Mistress," called Billina, fluttering down to
meet them.  "I was expecting you to call, for I heard you had come back
and brought your uncle and aunt with you."

"We're here for good and all, this time, Billina," cried Dorothy,
joyfully.  "Uncle Henry and Aunt Em belong to Oz now as much as I do!"

"Then they are very lucky people," declared Billina; "for there
couldn't be a nicer place to live.  But come, my dear; I must show you
all my Dorothys.  Nine are living and have grown up to be very
respectable hens; but one took cold at Ozma's birthday party and died
of the pip, and the other two turned out to be horrid roosters, so I
had to change their names from Dorothy to Daniel.  They all had the
letter 'D' engraved upon their gold lockets, you remember, with your
picture inside, and 'D' stands for Daniel as well as for Dorothy."

"Did you call both the roosters Daniel?" asked Uncle Henry.

"Yes, indeed.  I've nine Dorothys and two Daniels; and the nine
Dorothys have eighty-six sons and daughters and over three hundred
grandchildren," said Billina, proudly.

"What names do you give 'em all, dear?" inquired the little girl.

"Oh, they are all Dorothys and Daniels, some being Juniors and some
Double-Juniors.  Dorothy and Daniel are two good names, and I see no
object in hunting for others," declared the Yellow Hen.  "But just
think, Dorothy, what a big chicken family we've grown to be, and our
numbers increase nearly every day!  Ozma doesn't know what to do with
all the eggs we lay, and we are never eaten or harmed in any way, as
chickens are in your country.  They give us everything to make us
contented and happy, and I, my dear, am the acknowledged Queen and
Governor of every chicken in Oz, because I'm the eldest and started the
whole colony."

"You ought to be very proud, ma'am," said Uncle Henry, who was
astonished to hear a hen talk so sensibly.

"Oh, I am," she replied.  "I've the loveliest pearl necklace you ever
saw.  Come in the house and I'll show it to you.  And I've nine leg
bracelets and a diamond pin for each wing.  But I only wear them on
state occasions."

They followed the Yellow Hen into the house, which Aunt Em declared was
neat as a pin.  They could not sit down, because all Billina's chairs
were roosting-poles made of silver; so they had to stand while the hen
fussily showed them her treasures.

Then they had to go into the back rooms occupied by Billina's nine
Dorothys and two Daniels, who were all plump yellow chickens and
greeted the visitors very politely.  It was easy to see that they were
well bred and that Billina had looked after their education.

In the yards were all the children and grandchildren of these eleven
elders and they were of all sizes, from well-grown hens to tiny
chickens just out of the shell.  About fifty fluffy yellow youngsters
were at school, being taught good manners and good grammar by a young
hen who wore spectacles.  They sang in chorus a patriotic song of the
Land of Oz, in honor of their visitors, and Aunt Em was much impressed
by these talking chickens.

Dorothy wanted to stay and play with the young chickens for awhile, but
Uncle Henry and Aunt Em had not seen the palace grounds and gardens yet
and were eager to get better acquainted with the marvelous and
delightful land in which they were to live.

"I'll stay here, and you can go for a walk," said Dorothy.  "You'll be
perfec'ly safe anywhere, and may do whatever you want to.  When you get
tired, go back to the palace and find your rooms, and I'll come to you
before luncheon is ready."

So Uncle Henry and Aunt Em started out alone to explore the grounds,
and Dorothy knew that they couldn't get lost, because all the palace
grounds were enclosed by a high wall of green marble set with emeralds.

It was a rare treat to these simple folk, who had lived in the country
all their lives and known little enjoyment of any sort, to wear
beautiful clothes and live in a palace and be treated with respect and
consideration by all around them.  They were very happy indeed as they
strolled up the shady walks and looked upon the gorgeous flowers and
shrubs, feeling that their new home was more beautiful than any tongue
could describe.

Suddenly, as they turned a corner and walked through a gap in a high
hedge, they came face to face with an enormous Lion, which crouched
upon the green lawn and seemed surprised by their appearance.

They stopped short, Uncle Henry trembling with horror and Aunt Em too
terrified to scream.  Next moment the poor woman clasped her husband
around the neck and cried:

"Save me, Henry, save me!"

"Can't even save myself, Em," he returned, in a husky voice, "for the
animile looks as if it could eat both of us an' lick its chops for
more!  If I only had a gun--"

"Haven't you, Henry?  Haven't you?" she asked anxiously.

"Nary gun, Em.  So let's die as brave an' graceful as we can.  I knew
our luck couldn't last!"

"I won't die.  I won't be eaten by a lion!" wailed Aunt Em, glaring
upon the huge beast.  Then a thought struck her, and she whispered,
"Henry, I've heard as savage beastses can be conquered by the human
eye.  I'll eye that lion out o' countenance an' save our lives."

"Try it, Em," he returned, also in a whisper.  "Look at him as you do
at me when I'm late to dinner."

Aunt Em turned upon the Lion a determined countenance and a wild
dilated eye.  She glared at the immense beast steadily, and the Lion,
who had been quietly blinking at them, began to appear uneasy and
disturbed.

"Is anything the matter, ma'am?" he asked, in a mild voice.

At this speech from the terrible beast Aunt Em and Uncle Henry both
were startled, and then Uncle Henry remembered that this must be the
Lion they had seen in Ozma's Throne Room.

"Hold on, Em!" he exclaimed.  "Quit the eagle eye conquest an' take
courage.  I guess this is the same Cowardly Lion Dorothy has told us
about."

"Oh, is it?" she cried, much relieved.

"When he spoke, I got the idea; and when he looked so 'shamed like, I
was sure of it," Uncle Henry continued.

Aunt Em regarded the animal with new interest.

"Are you the Cowardly Lion?" she inquired.  "Are you Dorothy's friend?"

"Yes'm," answered the Lion, meekly.  "Dorothy and I are old chums and
are very fond of each other.  I'm the King of Beasts, you know, and the
Hungry Tiger and I serve Princess Ozma as her body guards."

"To be sure," said Aunt Em, nodding.  "But the King of Beasts shouldn't
be cowardly."

"I've heard that said before," remarked the Lion, yawning till he
showed two great rows of sharp white teeth; "but that does not keep me
from being frightened whenever I go into battle."

"What do you do, run?" asked Uncle Henry.

"No; that would be foolish, for the enemy would run after me," declared
the Lion.  "So I tremble with fear and pitch in as hard as I can; and
so far I have always won my fight."

"Ah, I begin to understand," said Uncle Henry.

"Were you scared when I looked at you just now?" inquired Aunt Em.

"Terribly scared, madam," answered the Lion, "for at first I thought
you were going to have a fit.  Then I noticed you were trying to
overcome me by the power of your eye, and your glance was so fierce and
penetrating that I shook with fear."

This greatly pleased the lady, and she said quite cheerfully:

"Well, I won't hurt you, so don't be scared any more.  I just wanted to
see what the human eye was good for."

"The human eye is a fearful weapon," remarked the Lion, scratching his
nose softly with his paw to hide a smile.  "Had I not known you were
Dorothy's friends I might have torn you both into shreds in order to
escape your terrible gaze."

Aunt Em shuddered at hearing this, and Uncle Henry said hastily:

"I'm glad you knew us.  Good morning, Mr. Lion; we'll hope to see you
again--by and by--some time in the future."

"Good morning," replied the Lion, squatting down upon the lawn again.
"You are likely to see a good deal of me, if you live in the Land of
Oz."



8.  How the Grand Gallipoot Joined The Nomes

After leaving the Whimsies, Guph continued on his journey and
penetrated far into the Northwest.  He wanted to get to the Country of
the Growleywogs, and in order to do that he must cross the Ripple Land,
which was a hard thing to do.  For the Ripple Land was a succession of
hills and valleys, all very steep and rocky, and they changed places
constantly by rippling.  While Guph was climbing a hill it sank down
under him and became a valley, and while he was descending into a
valley it rose up and carried him to the top of a hill.  This was very
perplexing to the traveler, and a stranger might have thought he could
never cross the Ripple Land at all.  But Guph knew that if he kept
steadily on he would get to the end at last; so he paid no attention to
the changing hills and valleys and plodded along as calmly as if
walking upon the level ground.

The result of this wise persistence was that the General finally
reached firmer soil and, after penetrating a dense forest, came to the
Dominion of the Growleywogs.

No sooner had he crossed the border of this domain when two guards
seized him and carried him before the Grand Gallipoot of the
Growleywogs, who scowled upon him ferociously and asked him why he
dared intrude upon his territory.

"I'm the Lord High General of the Invincible Army of the Nomes, and my
name is Guph," was the reply.  "All the world trembles when that name
is mentioned."

The Growleywogs gave a shout of jeering laughter at this, and one of
them caught the Nome in his strong arms and tossed him high into the
air.  Guph was considerably shaken when he fell upon the hard ground,
but he appeared to take no notice of the impertinence and composed
himself to speak again to the Grand Gallipoot.

"My master, King Roquat the Red, has sent me here to confer with you.
He wishes your assistance to conquer the Land of Oz."

Here the General paused, and the Grand Gallipoot scowled upon him more
terribly than ever and said:

"Go on!"

The voice of the Grand Gallipoot was partly a roar and partly a growl.
He mumbled his words badly and Guph had to listen carefully in order to
understand him.

These Growleywogs were certainly remarkable creatures.  They were of
gigantic size, yet were all bone and skin and muscle, there being no
meat or fat upon their bodies at all.  Their powerful muscles lay just
underneath their skins, like bunches of tough rope, and the weakest
Growleywog was so strong that he could pick up an elephant and toss it
seven miles away.

It seems unfortunate that strong people are usually so disagreeable and
overbearing that no one cares for them.  In fact, to be different from
your fellow creatures is always a misfortune.  The Growleywogs knew
that they were disliked and avoided by every one, so they had become
surly and unsociable even among themselves.  Guph knew that they hated
all people, including the Nomes; but he hoped to win them over,
nevertheless, and knew that if he succeeded they would afford him very
powerful assistance.

"The Land of Oz is ruled by a namby-pamby girl who is disgustingly kind
and good," he continued.  "Her people are all happy and contented and
have no care or worries whatever."

"Go on!" growled the Grand Gallipoot.

"Once the Nome King enslaved the Royal Family of Ev--another
goody-goody lot that we detest," said the General.  "But Ozma
interfered, although it was none of her business, and marched her army
against us.  With her was a Kansas girl named Dorothy, and a Yellow
Hen, and they marched directly into the Nome King's cavern.  There they
liberated our slaves from Ev and stole King Roquat's Magic Belt, which
they carried away with them.  So now our King is making a tunnel under
the deadly desert, so we can march through it to the Emerald City.
When we get there we mean to conquer and destroy all the land and
recapture the Magic Belt."

Again he paused, and again the Grand Gallipoot growled:

"Go on!"

Guph tried to think what to say next, and a happy thought soon occurred
to him.

"We want you to help us in this conquest," he announced, "for we need
the mighty aid of the Growleywogs in order to make sure that we shall
not be defeated.  You are the strongest people in all the world, and
you hate good and happy creatures as much as we Nomes do.  I am sure it
will be a real pleasure to you to tear down the beautiful Emerald City,
and in return for your valuable assistance we will allow you to bring
back to your country ten thousand people of Oz, to be your slaves."

"Twenty thousand!" growled the Grand Gallipoot.

"All right, we promise you twenty thousand," agreed the General.

The Gallipoot made a signal and at once his attendants picked up
General Guph and carried him away to a prison, where the jailer amused
himself by sticking pins in the round fat body of the old Nome, to see
him jump and hear him yell.

But while this was going on the Grand Gallipoot was talking with his
counselors, who were the most important officials of the Growleywogs.
When he had stated to them the proposition of the Nome King, he said:

"My advice is to offer to help them.  Then, when we have conquered the
Land of Oz, we will take not only our twenty thousand prisoners but all
the gold and jewels we want."

"Let us take the Magic Belt, too," suggested one counselor.

"And rob the Nome King and make him our slave," said another.

"That is a good idea," declared the Grand Gallipoot.  "I'd like King
Roquat for my own slave.  He could black my boots and bring me my
porridge every morning while I am in bed."

"There is a famous Scarecrow in Oz.  I'll take him for my slave," said
a counselor.

"I'll take Tiktok, the machine man," said another.

"Give me the Tin Woodman," said a third.

They went on for some time, dividing up the people and the treasure of
Oz in advance of the conquest.  For they had no doubt at all that they
would be able to destroy Ozma's domain.  Were they not the strongest
people in all the world?

"The deadly desert has kept us out of Oz before," remarked the Grand
Gallipoot, "but now that the Nome King is building a tunnel we shall
get into the Emerald City very easily.  So let us send the little fat
General back to his King with our promise to assist him.  We will not
say that we intend to conquer the Nomes after we have conquered Oz, but
we will do so, just the same."

This plan being agreed upon, they all went home to dinner, leaving
General Guph still in prison.  The Nome had no idea that he had
succeeded in his mission, for finding himself in prison he feared the
Growleywogs intended to put him to death.

By this time the jailer had tired of sticking pins in the General, and
was amusing himself by carefully pulling the Nome's whiskers out by the
roots, one at a time.  This enjoyment was interrupted by the Grand
Gallipoot sending for the prisoner.

"Wait a few hours," begged the jailer.  "I haven't pulled out a quarter
of his whiskers yet."

"If you keep the Grand Gallipoot waiting, he'll break your back,"
declared the messenger.

"Perhaps you're right," sighed the jailer.  "Take the prisoner away, if
you will, but I advise you to kick him at every step he takes.  It will
be good fun, for he is as soft as a ripe peach."

So Guph was led away to the royal castle, where the Grand Gallipoot
told him that the Growleywogs had decided to assist the Nomes in
conquering the Land of Oz.

"Whenever you are ready," he added, "send me word and I will march with
eighteen thousand of my most powerful warriors to your aid."

Guph was so delighted that he forgot all the smarting caused by the
pins and the pulling of whiskers.  He did not even complain of the
treatment he had received, but thanked the Grand Gallipoot and hurried
away upon his journey.

He had now secured the assistance of the Whimsies and the Growleywogs;
but his success made him long for still more allies.  His own life
depended upon his conquering Oz, and he said to himself:

"I'll take no chances.  I'll be certain of success.  Then, when Oz is
destroyed, perhaps I shall be a greater man than old Roquat, and I can
throw him away and be King of the Nomes myself.  Why not?  The Whimsies
are stronger than the Nomes, and they also are my friends.  There are
some people still stronger than the Growleywogs, and if I can but
induce them to aid me I shall have nothing more to fear."



9.  How the Wogglebug Taught Athletics

It did not take Dorothy long to establish herself in her new home, for
she knew the people and the manners and customs of the Emerald City
just as well as she knew the old Kansas farm.

But Uncle Henry and Aunt Em had some trouble in getting used to the
finery and pomp and ceremony of Ozma's palace, and felt uneasy because
they were obliged to be "dressed up" all the time.  Yet every one was
very courteous and kind to them and endeavored to make them happy.
Ozma, especially, made much of Dorothy's relatives, for her little
friend's sake, and she well knew that the awkwardness and strangeness
of their new mode of life would all wear off in time.

The old people were chiefly troubled by the fact that there was no work
for them to do.

"Ev'ry day is like Sunday, now," declared Aunt Em, solemnly, "and I
can't say I like it.  If they'd only let me do up the dishes after
meals, or even sweep an' dust my own rooms, I'd be a deal happier.
Henry don't know what to do with himself either, and once when he stole
out an' fed the chickens Billina scolded him for letting 'em eat
between meals.  I never knew before what a hardship it is to be rich
and have everything you want."

These complaints began to worry Dorothy; so she had a long talk with
Ozma upon the subject.

"I see I must find them something to do," said the girlish Ruler of Oz,
seriously.  "I have been watching your uncle and aunt, and I believe
they will be more contented if occupied with some light tasks.  While I
am considering this matter, Dorothy, you might make a trip with them
through the Land of Oz, visiting some of the odd corners and
introducing your relatives to some of our curious people."

"Oh, that would be fine!" exclaimed Dorothy, eagerly.

"I will give you an escort befitting your rank as a Princess,"
continued Ozma; "and you may go to some of the places you have not yet
visited yourself, as well as some others that you know.  I will mark
out a plan of the trip for you and have everything in readiness for you
to start to-morrow morning.  Take your time, dear, and be gone as long
as you wish.  By the time you return I shall have found some occupation
for Uncle Henry and Aunt Em that will keep them from being restless and
dissatisfied."

Dorothy thanked her good friend and kissed the lovely Ruler gratefully.
Then she ran to tell the joyful news to her uncle and aunt.

Next morning, after breakfast, everything was found ready for their
departure.

The escort included Omby Amby, the Captain General of Ozma's army,
which consisted merely of twenty-seven officers besides the Captain
General.  Once Omby Amby had been a private soldier--the only private
in the army--but as there was never any fighting to do Ozma saw no need
of a private, so she made Omby Amby the highest officer of them all.
He was very tall and slim and wore a gay uniform and a fierce mustache.
Yet the mustache was the only fierce thing about Omby Amby, whose
nature was as gentle as that of a child.

The wonderful Wizard had asked to join the party, and with him came his
friend the Shaggy Man, who was shaggy but not ragged, being dressed in
fine silks with satin shags and bobtails.  The Shaggy Man had shaggy
whiskers and hair, but a sweet disposition and a soft, pleasant voice.

There was an open wagon, with three seats for the passengers, and the
wagon was drawn by the famous wooden Sawhorse which had once been
brought to life by Ozma by means of a magic powder.  The Sawhorse wore
wooden shoes to keep his wooden legs from wearing away, and he was
strong and swift.  As this curious creature was Ozma's own favorite
steed, and very popular with all the people of the Emerald City,
Dorothy knew that she had been highly favored by being permitted to use
the Sawhorse on her journey.

In the front seat of the wagon sat Dorothy and the Wizard.  Uncle Henry
and Aunt Em sat in the next seat and the Shaggy Man and Omby Amby in
the third seat.  Of course Toto was with the party, curled up at
Dorothy's feet, and just as they were about to start, Billina came
fluttering along the path and begged to be taken with them.  Dorothy
readily agreed, so the Yellow Hen flew up and perched herself upon the
dashboard.  She wore her pearl necklace and three bracelets upon each
leg, in honor of the occasion.

Dorothy kissed Ozma good-bye, and all the people standing around waved
their handkerchiefs, and the band in an upper balcony struck up a
military march.  Then the Wizard clucked to the Sawhorse and said:
"Gid-dap!" and the wooden animal pranced away and drew behind him the
big red wagon and all the passengers, without any effort at all.  A
servant threw open a gate of the palace enclosure, that they might pass
out; and so, with music and shouts following them, the journey was
begun.

"It's almost like a circus," said Aunt Em, proudly.  "I can't help
feelin' high an' mighty in this kind of a turn-out."

Indeed, as they passed down the street, all the people cheered them
lustily, and the Shaggy Man and the Wizard and the Captain General all
took off their hats and bowed politely in acknowledgment.

When they came to the great wall of the Emerald City, the gates were
opened by the Guardian who always tended them.  Over the gateway hung a
dull-colored metal magnet shaped like a horse-shoe, placed against a
shield of polished gold.

"That," said the Shaggy Man, impressively, "is the wonderful Love
Magnet.  I brought it to the Emerald City myself, and all who pass
beneath this gateway are both loving and beloved."

"It's a fine thing," declared Aunt Em, admiringly.  "If we'd had it in
Kansas I guess the man who held a mortgage on the farm wouldn't have
turned us out."

"Then I'm glad we didn't have it," returned Uncle Henry.  "I like Oz
better than Kansas, even; an' this little wood Sawhorse beats all the
critters I ever saw.  He don't have to be curried, or fed, or watered,
an' he's strong as an ox.  Can he talk, Dorothy?"

"Yes, Uncle," replied the child.  "But the Sawhorse never says much.
He told me once that he can't talk and think at the same time, so he
prefers to think."

"Which is very sensible," declared the Wizard, nodding approvingly.
"Which way do we go, Dorothy?"

"Straight ahead into the Quadling Country," she answered.  "I've got a
letter of interduction to Miss Cuttenclip."

"Oh!" exclaimed the Wizard, much interested.  "Are we going there?
Then I'm glad I came, for I've always wanted to meet the Cuttenclips."

"Who are they?" inquired Aunt Em.

"Wait till we get there," replied Dorothy, with a laugh; "then you'll
see for yourself.  I've never seen the Cuttenclips, you know, so I
can't 'zactly 'splain 'em to you."

Once free of the Emerald City the Sawhorse dashed away at tremendous
speed.  Indeed, he went so fast that Aunt Em had hard work to catch her
breath, and Uncle Henry held fast to the seat of the red wagon.

"Gently--gently, my boy!" called the Wizard, and at this the Sawhorse
slackened his speed.

"What's wrong?" asked the animal, slightly turning his wooden head to
look at the party with one eye, which was a knot of wood.

"Why, we wish to admire the scenery, that's all," answered the Wizard.

"Some of your passengers," added the Shaggy Man, "have never been out
of the Emerald City before, and the country is all new to them."

"If you go too fast you'll spoil all the fun," said Dorothy.  "There's
no hurry."

"Very well; it is all the same to me," observed the Sawhorse; and after
that he went at a more moderate pace.

Uncle Henry was astonished.

"How can a wooden thing be so intelligent?" he asked.

"Why, I gave him some sawdust brains the last time I fitted his head
with new ears," explained the Wizard.  "The sawdust was made from hard
knots, and now the Sawhorse is able to think out any knotty problem he
meets with."

"I see," said Uncle Henry.

"I don't," remarked Aunt Em; but no one paid any attention to this
statement.

Before long they came to a stately building that stood upon a green
plain with handsome shade trees grouped here and there.

"What is that?" asked Uncle Henry.

"That," replied the Wizard, "is the Royal Athletic College of Oz, which
is directed by Professor H. M. Wogglebug, T.E."

"Let's stop and make a call," suggested Dorothy.

So the Sawhorse drew up in front of the great building and they were
met at the door by the learned Wogglebug himself.  He seemed fully as
tall as the Wizard, and was dressed in a red and white checked vest and
a blue swallow-tailed coat, and had yellow knee breeches and purple
silk stockings upon his slender legs.  A tall hat was jauntily set upon
his head and he wore spectacles over his big bright eyes.

"Welcome, Dorothy," said the Wogglebug; "and welcome to all your
friends.  We are indeed pleased to receive you at this great Temple of
Learning."

"I thought it was an Athletic College," said the Shaggy Man.

"It is, my dear sir," answered the Wogglebug, proudly.  "Here it is
that we teach the youth of our great land scientific College
Athletics--in all their purity."

"Don't you teach them anything else?" asked Dorothy.  "Don't they get
any reading, writing and 'rithmetic?"

"Oh, yes; of course.  They get all those, and more," returned the
Professor.  "But such things occupy little of their time.  Please
follow me and I will show you how my scholars are usually occupied.
This is a class hour and they are all busy."

They followed him to a big field back of the college building, where
several hundred young Ozites were at their classes.  In one place they
played football, in another baseball.  Some played tennis, some golf;
some were swimming in a big pool.  Upon a river which wound through the
grounds several crews in racing boats were rowing with great
enthusiasm.  Other groups of students played basketball and cricket,
while in one place a ring was roped in to permit boxing and wrestling
by the energetic youths.  All the collegians seemed busy and there was
much laughter and shouting.

"This college," said Professor Wogglebug, complacently, "is a great
success.  Its educational value is undisputed, and we are turning out
many great and valuable citizens every year."

"But when do they study?" asked Dorothy.

"Study?" said the Wogglebug, looking perplexed at the question.

"Yes; when do they get their 'rithmetic, and jogerfy, and such things?"

"Oh, they take doses of those every night and morning," was the reply.

"What do you mean by doses?" Dorothy inquired, wonderingly.

"Why, we use the newly invented School Pills, made by your friend the
Wizard.  These pills we have found to be very effective, and they save
a lot of time.  Please step this way and I will show you our Laboratory
of Learning."

He led them to a room in the building where many large bottles were
standing in rows upon shelves.

"These are the Algebra Pills," said the Professor, taking down one of
the bottles.  "One at night, on retiring, is equal to four hours of
study.  Here are the Geography Pills--one at night and one in the
morning.  In this next bottle are the Latin Pills--one three times a
day.  Then we have the Grammar Pills--one before each meal--and the
Spelling Pills, which are taken whenever needed."

"Your scholars must have to take a lot of pills," remarked Dorothy,
thoughtfully.  "How do they take 'em, in applesauce?"

"No, my dear.  They are sugar-coated and are quickly and easily
swallowed.  I believe the students would rather take the pills than
study, and certainly the pills are a more effective method.  You see,
until these School Pills were invented we wasted a lot of time in study
that may now be better employed in practicing athletics."

"Seems to me the pills are a good thing," said Omby Amby, who
remembered how it used to make his head ache as a boy to study
arithmetic.

"They are, sir," declared the Wogglebug, earnestly.  "They give us an
advantage over all other colleges, because at no loss of time our boys
become thoroughly conversant with Greek and Latin, Mathematics and
Geography, Grammar and Literature.  You see they are never obliged to
interrupt their games to acquire the lesser branches of learning."

"It's a great invention, I'm sure," said Dorothy, looking admiringly at
the Wizard, who blushed modestly at this praise.

"We live in an age of progress," announced Professor Wogglebug,
pompously.  "It is easier to swallow knowledge than to acquire it
laboriously from books.  Is it not so, my friends?"

"Some folks can swallow anything," said Aunt Em, "but to me this seems
too much like taking medicine."

"Young men in college always have to take their medicine, one way or
another," observed the Wizard, with a smile; "and, as our Professor
says, these School Pills have proved to be a great success.  One day
while I was making them I happened to drop one of them, and one of
Billina's chickens gobbled it up.  A few minutes afterward this chick
got upon a roost and recited 'The Boy Stood on the Burning Deck'
without making a single mistake.  Then it recited 'The Charge of the
Light Brigade' and afterwards 'Excelsior.'  You see, the chicken had
eaten an Elocution Pill."

They now bade good-bye to the Professor, and thanking him for his kind
reception mounted again into the red wagon and continued their journey.



10.  How the Cuttenclips Lived

The travelers had taken no provisions with them because they knew that
they would be welcomed wherever they might go in the Land of Oz, and
that the people would feed and lodge them with genuine hospitality.  So
about noon they stopped at a farm-house and were given a delicious
luncheon of bread and milk, fruits and wheat cakes with maple syrup.
After resting a while and strolling through the orchards with their
host--a round, jolly farmer--they got into the wagon and again started
the Sawhorse along the pretty, winding road.

There were signposts at all the corners, and finally they came to one
which read:


TAKE THIS ROAD TO THE CUTTENCLIPS


There was also a hand pointing in the right direction, so they turned
the Sawhorse that way and found it a very good road, but seemingly
little traveled.

"I've never seen the Cuttenclips before," remarked Dorothy.

"Nor I," said the Captain General.

"Nor I," said the Wizard.

"Nor I," said Billina.

"I've hardly been out of the Emerald City since I arrived in this
country," added the Shaggy Man.

"Why, none of us has been there, then," exclaimed the little girl.  "I
wonder what the Cuttenclips are like."

"We shall soon find out," said the Wizard, with a sly laugh.  "I've
heard they are rather flimsy things."

The farm-houses became fewer as they proceeded, and the path was at
times so faint that the Sawhorse had hard work to keep in the road.
The wagon began to jounce, too; so they were obliged to go slowly.

After a somewhat wearisome journey they came in sight of a high wall,
painted blue with pink ornaments.  This wall was circular, and seemed
to enclose a large space.  It was so high that only the tops of the
trees could be seen above it.

The path led up to a small door in the wall, which was closed and
latched.  Upon the door was a sign in gold letters reading as follows:


VISITORS are requested to MOVE SLOWLY and CAREFULLY, and to avoid
COUGHING or making any BREEZE or DRAUGHT.


"That's strange," said the Shaggy Man, reading the sign aloud.  "Who
ARE the Cuttenclips, anyhow?"

"Why, they're paper dolls," answered Dorothy.  "Didn't you know that?"

"Paper dolls!  Then let's go somewhere else," said Uncle Henry.  "We're
all too old to play with dolls, Dorothy."

"But these are different," declared the girl.  "They're alive."

"Alive!" gasped Aunt Em, in amazement.

"Yes.  Let's go in," said Dorothy.

So they all got out of the wagon, since the door in the wall was not
big enough for them to drive the Sawhorse and wagon through it.

"You stay here, Toto!" commanded Dorothy, shaking her finger at the
little dog.  "You're so careless that you might make a breeze if I let
you inside."

Toto wagged his tail as if disappointed at being left behind; but he
made no effort to follow them.  The Wizard unlatched the door, which
opened outward, and they all looked eagerly inside.

Just before the entrance was drawn up a line of tiny soldiers, with
uniforms brightly painted and paper guns upon their shoulders.  They
were exactly alike, from one end of the line to the other, and all were
cut out of paper and joined together in the centers of their bodies.

As the visitors entered the enclosure the Wizard let the door swing
back into place, and at once the line of soldiers tumbled over, fell
flat upon their backs, and lay fluttering upon the ground.

"Hi there!" called one of them; "what do you mean by slamming the door
and blowing us over?"

"I beg your pardon, I'm sure," said the Wizard, regretfully.  "I didn't
know you were so delicate."

"We're not delicate!" retorted another soldier, raising his head from
the ground.  "We are strong and healthy; but we can't stand draughts."

"May I help you up?" asked Dorothy.

"If you please," replied the end soldier.  "But do it gently, little
girl."

Dorothy carefully stood up the line of soldiers, who first dusted their
painted clothes and then saluted the visitors with their paper muskets.
From the end it was easy to see that the entire line had been cut out
of paper, although from the front the soldiers looked rather solid and
imposing.

"I've a letter of introduction from Princess Ozma to Miss Cuttenclip,"
announced Dorothy.

"Very well," said the end soldier, and blew upon a paper whistle that
hung around his neck.  At once a paper soldier in a Captain's uniform
came out of a paper house near by and approached the group at the
entrance.  He was not very big, and he walked rather stiffly and
uncertainly on his paper legs; but he had a pleasant face, with very
red cheeks and very blue eyes, and he bowed so low to the strangers
that Dorothy laughed, and the breeze from her mouth nearly blew the
Captain over.  He wavered and struggled and finally managed to remain
upon his feet.

"Take care, Miss!" he said, warningly.  "You're breaking the rules, you
know, by laughing."

"Oh, I didn't know that," she replied.

"To laugh in this place is nearly as dangerous as to cough," said the
Captain.  "You'll have to breathe very quietly, I assure you."

"We'll try to," promised the girl.  "May we see Miss Cuttenclip,
please?"

"You may," promptly returned the Captain.  "This is one of her
reception days.  Be good enough to follow me."

He turned and led the way up a path, and as they followed slowly,
because the paper Captain did not move very swiftly, they took the
opportunity to gaze around them at this strange paper country.

Beside the path were paper trees, all cut out very neatly and painted a
brilliant green color.  And back of the trees were rows of cardboard
houses, painted in various colors but most of them having green blinds.
Some were large and some small, and in the front yards were beds of
paper flowers quite natural in appearance.  Over some of the porches
paper vines were twined, giving them a cozy and shady look.

As the visitors passed along the street a good many paper dolls came to
the doors and windows of their houses to look at them curiously.  These
dolls were nearly all the same height, but were cut into various
shapes, some being fat and some lean.  The girl dolls wore many
beautiful costumes of tissue paper, making them quite fluffy; but their
heads and hands were no thicker than the paper of which they were made.

Some of the paper people were on the street, walking along or
congregated in groups and talking together; but as soon as they saw the
strangers they all fluttered into the houses as fast as they could go,
so as to be out of danger.

"Excuse me if I go edgewise," remarked the Captain as they came to a
slight hill.  "I can get along faster that way and not flutter so much."

"That's all right," said Dorothy.  "We don't mind how you go, I'm sure."

At one side of the street was a paper pump, and a paper boy was pumping
paper water into a paper pail.  The Yellow Hen happened to brush
against this boy with her wing, and he flew into the air and fell into
a paper tree, where he stuck until the Wizard gently pulled him out.
At the same time, the pail went into the air, spilling the paper water,
while the paper pump bent nearly double.

"Goodness me!" said the Hen.  "If I should flop my wings I believe I'd
knock over the whole village!"

"Then don't flop them--please don't!" entreated the Captain.  "Miss
Cuttenclip would be very much distressed if her village was spoiled."

"Oh, I'll be careful," promised Billina.

"Are not all these paper girls and women named Miss Cuttenclips?"
inquired Omby Amby.

"No indeed," answered the Captain, who was walking better since he
began to move edgewise.  "There is but one Miss Cuttenclip, who is our
Queen, because she made us all.  These girls are Cuttenclips, to be
sure, but their names are Emily and Polly and Sue and Betty and such
things.  Only the Queen is called Miss Cuttenclip."

"I must say that this place beats anything I ever heard of," observed
Aunt Em.  "I used to play with paper dolls myself, an' cut 'em out; but
I never thought I'd ever see such things alive."

"I don't see as it's any more curious than hearing hens talk," returned
Uncle Henry.

"You're likely to see many queer things in the Land of Oz, sir," said
the Wizard.  "But a fairy country is extremely interesting when you get
used to being surprised."

"Here we are!" called the Captain, stopping before a cottage.

This house was made of wood, and was remarkably pretty in design.  In
the Emerald City it would have been considered a tiny dwelling, indeed;
but in the midst of this paper village it seemed immense.  Real flowers
were in the garden and real trees grew beside it.  Upon the front door
was a sign reading:


MISS CUTTENCLIP.


Just as they reached the porch the front door opened and a little girl
stood before them.  She appeared to be about the same age as Dorothy,
and smiling upon her visitors she said, sweetly:

"You are welcome."

All the party seemed relieved to find that here was a real girl, of
flesh and blood.  She was very dainty and pretty as she stood there
welcoming them.  Her hair was a golden blonde and her eyes turquoise
blue.  She had rosy cheeks and lovely white teeth.  Over her simple
white lawn dress she wore an apron with pink and white checks, and in
one hand she held a pair of scissors.

"May we see Miss Cuttenclip, please?" asked Dorothy.

"I am Miss Cuttenclip," was the reply.  "Won't you come in?"

She held the door open while they all entered a pretty sitting-room
that was littered with all sorts of paper--some stiff, some thin, and
some tissue.  The sheets and scraps were of all colors.  Upon a table
were paints and brushes, while several pair of scissors, of different
sizes, were lying about.

"Sit down, please," said Miss Cuttenclip, clearing the paper scraps off
some of the chairs.  "It is so long since I have had any visitors that
I am not properly prepared to receive them.  But I'm sure you will
pardon my untidy room, for this is my workshop."

"Do you make all the paper dolls?" inquired Dorothy.

"Yes; I cut them out with my scissors, and paint the faces and some of
the costumes.  It is very pleasant work, and I am happy making my paper
village grow."

"But how do the paper dolls happen to be alive?" asked Aunt Em.

"The first dolls I made were not alive," said Miss Cuttenclip.  "I used
to live near the castle of a great Sorceress named Glinda the Good, and
she saw my dolls and said they were very pretty.  I told her I thought
I would like them better if they were alive, and the next day the
Sorceress brought me a lot of magic paper.  'This is live paper,' she
said, 'and all the dolls you cut out of it will be alive, and able to
think and to talk.  When you have used it all up, come to me and I will
give you more.'

"Of course I was delighted with this present," continued Miss
Cuttenclip, "and at once set to work and made several paper dolls,
which, as soon as they were cut out, began to walk around and talk to
me.  But they were so thin that I found that any breeze would blow them
over and scatter them dreadfully; so Glinda found this lonely place for
me, where few people ever come.  She built the wall to keep any wind
from blowing away my people, and told me I could build a paper village
here and be its Queen.  That is why I came here and settled down to
work and started the village you now see.  It was many years ago that I
built the first houses, and I've kept pretty busy and made my village
grow finely; and I need not tell you that I am very happy in my work."

"Many years ago!" exclaimed Aunt Em.  "Why, how old are you, child?"

"I never keep track of the years," said Miss Cuttenclip, laughing.
"You see, I don't grow up at all, but stay just the same as I was when
first I came here.  Perhaps I'm older even than you are, madam; but I
couldn't say for sure."

They looked at the lovely little girl wonderingly, and the Wizard asked:

"What happens to your paper village when it rains?"

"It does not rain here," replied Miss Cuttenclip.  "Glinda keeps all
the rain storms away; so I never worry about my dolls getting wet.  But
now, if you will come with me, it will give me pleasure to show you
over my paper kingdom.  Of course you must go slowly and carefully, and
avoid making any breeze."

They left the cottage and followed their guide through the various
streets of the village.  It was indeed an amazing place, when one
considered that it was all made with scissors, and the visitors were
not only greatly interested but full of admiration for the skill of
little Miss Cuttenclip.

In one place a large group of especially nice paper dolls assembled to
greet their Queen, whom it was easy to see they loved early.  These
dolls marched and danced before the visitors, and then they all waved
their paper handkerchiefs and sang in a sweet chorus a song called "The
Flag of Our Native Land."

At the conclusion of the song they ran up a handsome paper flag on a
tall flagpole, and all of the people of the village gathered around to
cheer as loudly as they could--although, of course, their voices were
not especially strong.

Miss Cuttenclip was about to make her subjects a speech in reply to
this patriotic song, when the Shaggy Man happened to sneeze.

He was a very loud and powerful sneezer at any time, and he had tried
so hard to hold in this sneeze that when it suddenly exploded the
result was terrible.

The paper dolls were mowed down by dozens, and flew and fluttered in
wild confusion in every direction, tumbling this way and that and
getting more or less wrinkled and bent.

A wail of terror and grief came from the scattered throng, and Miss
Cuttenclip exclaimed:

"Dear me! dear me!" and hurried at once to the rescue of her overturned
people.

"Oh, Shaggy Man!  How could you?" asked Dorothy, reproachfully.

"I couldn't help it--really I couldn't," protested the Shaggy Man,
looking quite ashamed.  "And I had no idea it took so little to upset
these paper dolls."

"So little!" said Dorothy.  "Why, it was 'most as bad as a Kansas
cyclone."  And then she helped Miss Cuttenclip rescue the paper folk
and stand them on their feet again.  Two of the cardboard houses had
also tumbled over, and the little Queen said she would have to repair
them and paste them together before they could be lived in again.

And now, fearing they might do more damage to the flimsy paper people,
they decided to go away.  But first they thanked Miss Cuttenclip very
warmly for her courtesy and kindness to them.

"Any friend of Princess Ozma is always welcome here--unless he
sneezes," said the Queen with a rather severe look at the Shaggy Man,
who hung his head.  "I like to have visitors admire my wonderful
village, and I hope you will call again."

Miss Cuttenclip herself led them to the door in the wall, and as they
passed along the street the paper dolls peeped at them half fearfully
from the doors and windows.  Perhaps they will never forget the Shaggy
Man's awful sneeze, and I am sure they were all glad to see the meat
people go away.



11.  How the General Met the First and Foremost

On leaving the Growleywogs General Guph had to recross the Ripple
Lands, and he did not find it a pleasant thing to do.  Perhaps having
his whiskers pulled out one by one and being used as a pin-cushion for
the innocent amusement of a good natured jailer had not improved the
quality of Guph's temper, for the old Nome raved and raged at the
recollection of the wrongs he had suffered, and vowed to take vengeance
upon the Growleywogs after he had used them for his purposes and Oz had
been conquered.  He went on in this furious way until he was half
across the Ripple Land.  Then he became seasick, and the rest of the
way this naughty Nome was almost as miserable as he deserved to be.

But when he reached the plains again and the ground was firm under his
feet he began to feel better, and instead of going back home he turned
directly west.  A squirrel, perched in a tree, saw him take this road
and called to him warningly: "Look out!"  But he paid no attention.  An
eagle paused in its flight through the air to look at him wonderingly
and say: "Look out!"  But on he went.

No one can say that Guph was not brave, for he had determined to visit
those dangerous creatures the Phanfasms, who resided upon the very top
of the dread Mountain of Phantastico.  The Phanfasms were Erbs, and so
dreaded by mortals and immortals alike that no one had been near their
mountain home for several thousand years.  Yet General Guph hoped to
induce them to join in his proposed warfare against the good and happy
Oz people.

Guph knew very well that the Phanfasms would be almost as dangerous to
the Nomes as they would to the Ozites, but he thought himself so clever
that he believed he could manage these strange creatures and make them
obey him.  And there was no doubt at all that if he could enlist the
services of the Phanfasms, their tremendous power, united to the
strength of the Growleywogs and the cunning of the Whimsies would doom
the Land of Oz to absolute destruction.

So the old Nome climbed the foothills and trudged along the wild
mountain paths until he came to a big gully that encircled the Mountain
of Phantastico and marked the boundary line of the dominion of the
Phanfasms.  This gully was about a third of the way up the mountain,
and it was filled to the brim with red-hot molten lava in which swam
fire-serpents and poisonous salamanders.  The heat from this mass and
its poisonous smell were both so unbearable that even birds hesitated
to fly over the gully, but circled around it.  All living things kept
away from the mountain.

Now Guph had heard, during his long lifetime, many tales of these
dreaded Phanfasms; so he had heard of this barrier of melted lava, and
also he had been told that there was a narrow bridge that spanned it in
one place.  So he walked along the edge until he found the bridge.  It
was a single arch of gray stone, and lying flat upon the bridge was a
scarlet alligator, seemingly fast asleep.

When Guph stumbled over the rocks in approaching the bridge the
creature opened its eyes, from which tiny flames shot in all
directions, and after looking at the intruder very wickedly the scarlet
alligator closed its eyelids again and lay still.

Guph saw there was no room for him to pass the alligator on the narrow
bridge, so he called out to it:

"Good morning, friend.  I don't wish to hurry you, but please tell me
if you are coming down, or going up?"

"Neither," snapped the alligator, clicking its cruel jaws together.

The General hesitated.

"Are you likely to stay there long?" he asked.

"A few hundred years or so," said the alligator.

Guph softly rubbed the end of his nose and tried to think what to do.

"Do you know whether the First and Foremost Phanfasm of Phantastico is
at home or not?" he presently inquired.

"I expect he is, seeing he is always at home," replied the alligator.

"Ah; who is that coming down the mountain?" asked the Nome, gazing
upward.

The alligator turned to look over its shoulder, and at once Guph ran to
the bridge and leaped over the sentinel's back before it could turn
back again.  The scarlet monster made a snap at the Nome's left foot,
but missed it by fully an inch.

"Ah ha!" laughed the General, who was now on the mountain path.  "I
fooled you that time."

"So you did; and perhaps you fooled yourself," retorted the alligator.
"Go up the mountain, if you dare, and find out what the First and
Foremost will do to you!"

"I will," declared Guph, boldly; and on he went up the path.

At first the scene was wild enough, but gradually it grew more and more
awful in appearance.  All the rocks had the shapes of frightful beings
and even the tree trunks were gnarled and twisted like serpents.

Suddenly there appeared before the Nome a man with the head of an owl.
His body was hairy like that of an ape, and his only clothing was a
scarlet scarf twisted around his waist.  He bore a huge club in his
hand and his round owl eyes blinked fiercely upon the intruder.

"What are you doing here?" he demanded, threatening Guph with his club.

"I've come to see the First and Foremost Phanfasm of Phantastico,"
replied the General, who did not like the way this creature looked at
him, but still was not afraid.

"Ah; you shall see him!" the man said, with a sneering laugh.  "The
First and Foremost shall decide upon the best way to punish you."

"He will not punish me," returned Guph, calmly, "for I have come here
to do him and his people a rare favor.  Lead on, fellow, and take me
directly to your master."

The owl-man raised his club with a threatening gesture.

"If you try to escape," he said, "beware--"

But here the General interrupted him.

"Spare your threats," said he, "and do not be impertinent, or I will
have you severely punished.  Lead on, and keep silent!"

This Guph was really a clever rascal, and it seems a pity he was so
bad, for in a good cause he might have accomplished much.  He realized
that he had put himself into a dangerous position by coming to this
dreadful mountain, but he also knew that if he showed fear he was lost.
So he adopted a bold manner as his best defense.  The wisdom of this
plan was soon evident, for the Phanfasm with the owl's head turned and
led the way up the mountain.

At the very top was a level plain upon which were heaps of rock that at
first glance seemed solid.  But on looking closer Guph discovered that
these rock heaps were dwellings, for each had an opening.

Not a person was to be seen outside the rock huts.  All was silent.

The owl-man led the way among the groups of dwellings to one standing
in the center.  It seemed no better and no worse than any of the
others.  Outside the entrance to this rock heap the guide gave a low
wail that sounded like "Lee-ow-ah!"

Suddenly there bounded from the opening another hairy man.  This one
wore the head of a bear.  In his hand he bore a brass hoop.  He glared
at the stranger in evident surprise.

"Why have you captured this foolish wanderer and brought him here?" he
demanded, addressing the owl-man.

"I did not capture him," was the answer.  "He passed the scarlet
alligator and came here of his own free will and accord."

The First and Foremost looked at the General.

"Have you tired of life, then?" he asked.

"No indeed," answered Guph.  "I am a Nome, and the Chief General of
King Roquat the Red's great army of Nomes.  I come of a long-lived
race, and I may say that I expect to live a long time yet.  Sit down,
you Phanfasms--if you can find a seat in this wild haunt--and listen to
what I have to say."

With all his knowledge and bravery General Guph did not know that the
steady glare from the bear eyes was reading his inmost thoughts as
surely as if they had been put into words.  He did not know that these
despised rock heaps of the Phanfasms were merely deceptions to his own
eyes, nor could he guess that he was standing in the midst of one of
the most splendid and luxurious cities ever built by magic power.  All
that he saw was a barren waste of rock heaps, a hairy man with an owl's
head and another with a bear's head.  The sorcery of the Phanfasms
permitted him to see no more.

Suddenly the First and Foremost swung his brass hoop and caught Guph
around the neck with it.  The next instant, before the General could
think what had happened to him, he was dragged inside the rock hut.
Here, his eyes still blinded to realities, he perceived only a dim
light, by which the hut seemed as rough and rude inside as it was
outside.  Yet he had a strange feeling that many bright eyes were
fastened upon him and that he stood in a vast and extensive hall.

The First and Foremost now laughed grimly and released his prisoner.

"If you have anything to say that is interesting," he remarked, "speak
out, before I strangle you."

So Guph spoke out.  He tried not to pay any attention to a strange
rustling sound that he heard, as of an unseen multitude drawing near to
listen to his words.  His eyes could see only the fierce bear-man, and
to him he addressed his speech.  First he told of his plan to conquer
the Land of Oz and plunder the country of its riches and enslave its
people, who, being fairies, could not be killed.  After relating all
this, and telling of the tunnel the Nome King was building, he said he
had come to ask the First and Foremost to join the Nomes, with his band
of terrible warriors, and help them to defeat the Oz people.

The General spoke very earnestly and impressively, but when he had
finished the bear-man began to laugh as if much amused, and his
laughter seemed to be echoed by a chorus of merriment from an unseen
multitude.  Then, for the first time, Guph began to feel a trifle
worried.

"Who else has promised to help you?" finally asked the First and
Foremost.

"The Whimsies," replied the General.

Again the bear-headed Phanfasm laughed.

"Any others?" he inquired.

"Only the Growleywogs," said Guph.

This answer set the First and Foremost laughing anew.

"What share of the spoils am I to have?" was the next question.

"Anything you like, except King Roquat's Magic Belt," replied Guph.

At this the Phanfasm set up a roar of laughter, which had its echo in
the unseen chorus, and the bear-man seemed so amused that he actually
rolled upon the ground and shouted with merriment.

"Oh, these blind and foolish Nomes!" he said.  "How big they seem to
themselves and how small they really are!"

Suddenly he arose and seized Guph's neck with one hairy paw, dragging
him out of the hut into the open.

Here he gave a curious wailing cry, and, as if in answer, from all the
rocky huts on the mountain-top came flocking a horde of Phanfasms, all
with hairy bodies, but wearing heads of various animals, birds and
reptiles.  All were ferocious and repulsive-looking to the deceived
eyes of the Nome, and Guph could not repress a shudder of disgust as he
looked upon them.

The First and Foremost slowly raised his arms, and in a twinkling his
hairy skin fell from him and he appeared before the astonished Nome as
a beautiful woman, clothed in a flowing gown of pink gauze.  In her
dark hair flowers were entwined, and her face was noble and calm.

At the same instant the entire band of Phanfasms was transformed into a
pack of howling wolves, running here and there as they snarled and
showed their ugly yellow fangs.

The woman now raised her arms, even as the man-bear had done, and in a
twinkling the wolves became crawling lizards, while she herself changed
into a huge butterfly.

Guph had only time to cry out in fear and take a step backward to avoid
the lizards when another transformation occurred, and all returned
instantly to the forms they had originally worn.

Then the First and Foremost, who had resumed his hairy body and bear
head, turned to the Nome and asked:

"Do you still demand our assistance?"

"More than ever," answered the General, firmly.

"Then tell me: what can you offer the Phanfasms that they have not
already?" inquired the First and Foremost.

Guph hesitated.  He really did not know what to say.  The Nome King's
vaunted Magic Belt seemed a poor thing compared to the astonishing
magical powers of these people.  Gold, jewels and slaves they might
secure in any quantity without especial effort.  He felt that he was
dealing with powers greatly beyond him.  There was but one argument
that might influence the Phanfasms, who were creatures of evil.

"Permit me to call your attention to the exquisite joy of making the
happy unhappy," said he at last.  "Consider the pleasure of destroying
innocent and harmless people."

"Ah! you have answered me," cried the First and Foremost.  "For that
reason alone we will aid you.  Go home, and tell your bandy-legged king
that as soon as his tunnel is finished the Phanfasms will be with him
and lead his legions to the conquest of Oz.  The deadly desert alone
has kept us from destroying Oz long ago, and your underground tunnel is
a clever thought.  Go home, and prepare for our coming!"

Guph was very glad to be permitted to go with this promise.  The
owl-man led him back down the mountain path and ordered the scarlet
alligator to crawl away and allow the Nome to cross the bridge in
safety.

After the visitor had gone a brilliant and gorgeous city appeared upon
the mountain top, clearly visible to the eyes of the gaily dressed
multitude of Phanfasms that lived there.  And the First and Foremost,
beautifully arrayed, addressed the others in these words:

"It is time we went into the world and brought sorrow and dismay to its
people.  Too long have we remained for ourselves upon this mountain
top, for while we are thus secluded many nations have grown happy and
prosperous, and the chief joy of the race of Phanfasms is to destroy
happiness.  So I think it is lucky that this messenger from the Nomes
arrived among us just now, to remind us that the opportunity has come
for us to make trouble.  We will use King Roquat's tunnel to conquer
the Land of Oz.  Then we will destroy the Whimsies, the Growleywogs and
the Nomes, and afterward go out to ravage and annoy and grieve the
whole world."

The multitude of evil Phanfasms eagerly applauded this plan, which they
fully approved.

I am told that the Erbs are the most powerful and merciless of all the
evil spirits, and the Phanfasms of Phantastico belong to the race of
Erbs.



12.  How they Matched the Fuddles

Dorothy and her fellow travelers rode away from the Cuttenclip village
and followed the indistinct path as far as the sign-post.  Here they
took the main road again and proceeded pleasantly through the pretty
farming country.  When evening came they stopped at a dwelling and were
joyfully welcomed and given plenty to eat and good beds for the night.

Early next morning, however, they were up and eager to start, and after
a good breakfast they bade their host good-bye and climbed into the red
wagon, to which the Sawhorse had been hitched all night.  Being made of
wood, this horse never got tired nor cared to lie down.  Dorothy was
not quite sure whether he ever slept or not, but it was certain that he
never did when anybody was around.

The weather is always beautiful in Oz, and this morning the air was
cool and refreshing and the sunshine brilliant and delightful.

In about an hour they came to a place where another road branched off.
There was a sign-post here which read:


THIS WAY TO FUDDLECUMJIG


"Oh, here is where we turn," said Dorothy, observing the sign.

"What!  Are we going to Fuddlecumjig?" asked the Captain General.

"Yes; Ozma thought we might enjoy the Fuddles.  They are said to be
very interesting," she replied.

"No one would suspect it from their name," said Aunt Em.  "Who are
they, anyhow?  More paper things?"

"I think not," answered Dorothy, laughing; "but I can't say 'zactly,
Aunt Em, what they are.  We'll find out when we get there."

"Perhaps the Wizard knows," suggested Uncle Henry.

"No; I've never been there before," said the Wizard.  "But I've often
heard of Fuddlecumjig and the Fuddles, who are said to be the most
peculiar people in all the Land of Oz."

"In what way?" asked the Shaggy Man.

"I don't know, I'm sure," said the Wizard.

Just then, as they rode along the pretty green lane toward
Fuddlecumjig, they espied a kangaroo sitting by the roadside.  The poor
animal had its face covered with both its front paws and was crying so
bitterly that the tears coursed down its cheeks in two tiny streams and
trickled across the road, where they formed a pool in a small hollow.

The Sawhorse stopped short at this pitiful sight, and Dorothy cried
out, with ready sympathy:

"What's the matter, Kangaroo?"

"Boo-hoo!  Boo-hoo!" wailed the Kangaroo; "I've lost my mi--mi--mi--Oh,
boo-hoo!  Boo-hoo!"--

"Poor thing," said the Wizard, "she's lost her mister.  It's probably
her husband, and he's dead."

"No, no, no!" sobbed the kangaroo.  "It--it isn't that.  I've lost my
mi--mi--Oh, boo, boo-hoo!"

"I know," said the Shaggy Man; "she's lost her mirror."

"No; it's my mi--mi--mi--Boo-hoo!  My mi--Oh, Boo-hoo!" and the
kangaroo cried harder than ever.

"It must be her mince-pie," suggested Aunt Em.

"Or her milk-toast," proposed Uncle Henry.

"I've lost my mi--mi--mittens!" said the kangaroo, getting it out at
last.

"Oh!" cried the Yellow Hen, with a cackle of relief.  "Why didn't you
say so before?"

"Boo-hoo!  I--I--couldn't," answered the kangaroo.

"But, see here," said Dorothy, "you don't need mittens in this warm
weather."

"Yes, indeed I do," replied the animal, stopping her sobs and removing
her paws from her face to look at the little girl reproachfully.  "My
hands will get all sunburned and tanned without my mittens, and I've
worn them so long that I'll probably catch cold without them."

"Nonsense!" said Dorothy.  "I never heard of any kangaroo wearing
mittens."

"Didn't you?" asked the animal, as if surprised.

"Never!" repeated the girl.  "And you'll probably make yourself sick if
you don't stop crying.  Where do you live?"

"About two miles beyond Fuddlecumjig," was the answer.  "Grandmother
Gnit made me the mittens, and she's one of the Fuddles."

"Well, you'd better go home now, and perhaps the old lady will make you
another pair," suggested Dorothy.  "We're on our way to Fuddlecumjig,
and you may hop along beside us."

So they rode on, and the kangaroo hopped beside the red wagon and
seemed quickly to have forgotten her loss.  By and by the Wizard said
to the animal:

"Are the Fuddles nice people?"

"Oh, very nice," answered the kangaroo; "that is, when they're properly
put together.  But they get dreadfully scattered and mixed up, at
times, and then you can't do anything with them."

"What do you mean by their getting scattered?" inquired Dorothy.

"Why, they're made in a good many small pieces," explained the
kangaroo; "and whenever any stranger comes near them they have a habit
of falling apart and scattering themselves around.  That's when they
get so dreadfully mixed, and it's a hard puzzle to put them together
again."

"Who usually puts them together?" asked Omby Amby.

"Any one who is able to match the pieces.  I sometimes put Grandmother
Gnit together myself, because I know her so well I can tell every piece
that belongs to her.  Then, when she's all matched, she knits for me,
and that's how she made my mittens.  But it took a good many days hard
knitting, and I had to put Grandmother together a good many times,
because every time I came near, she'd scatter herself."

"I should think she would get used to your coming, and not be afraid,"
said Dorothy.

"It isn't that," replied the kangaroo.  "They're not a bit afraid, when
they're put together, and usually they're very jolly and pleasant.
It's just a habit they have, to scatter themselves, and if they didn't
do it they wouldn't be Fuddles."

The travelers thought upon this quite seriously for a time, while the
Sawhorse continued to carry them rapidly forward.  Then Aunt Em
remarked:

"I don't see much use our visitin' these Fuddles.  If we find them
scattered, all we can do is to sweep 'em up, and then go about our
business."

"Oh, I b'lieve we'd better go on," replied Dorothy.  "I'm getting
hungry, and we must try to get some luncheon at Fuddlecumjig.  Perhaps
the food won't be scattered as badly as the people."

"You'll find plenty to eat there," declared the kangaroo, hopping along
in big bounds because the Sawhorse was going so fast; "and they have a
fine cook, too, if you can manage to put him together.  There's the
town now--just ahead of us!"

They looked ahead and saw a group of very pretty houses standing in a
green field a little apart from the main road.

"Some Munchkins came here a few days ago and matched a lot of people
together," said the kangaroo.  "I think they are together yet, and if
you go softly, without making any noise, perhaps they won't scatter."

"Let's try it," suggested the Wizard.

So they stopped the Sawhorse and got out of the wagon, and, after
bidding good bye to the kangaroo, who hopped away home, they entered
the field and very cautiously approached the group of houses.

So silently did they move that soon they saw through the windows of the
houses, people moving around, while others were passing to and fro in
the yards between the buildings.  They seemed much like other people
from a distance, and apparently they did not notice the little party so
quietly approaching.

They had almost reached the nearest house when Toto saw a large beetle
crossing the path and barked loudly at it.  Instantly a wild clatter
was heard from the houses and yards.  Dorothy thought it sounded like a
sudden hailstorm, and the visitors, knowing that caution was no longer
necessary, hurried forward to see what had happened.

After the clatter an intense stillness reigned in the town.  The
strangers entered the first house they came to, which was also the
largest, and found the floor strewn with pieces of the people who lived
there.  They looked much like fragments of wood neatly painted, and
were of all sorts of curious and fantastic shapes, no two pieces being
in any way alike.

They picked up some of these pieces and looked at them carefully.  On
one which Dorothy held was an eye, which looked at her pleasantly but
with an interested expression, as if it wondered what she was going to
do with it.  Quite near by she discovered and picked up a nose, and by
matching the two pieces together found that they were part of a face.

"If I could find the mouth," she said, "this Fuddle might be able to
talk, and tell us what to do next."

"Then let us find it," replied the Wizard, and so all got down on their
hands and knees and began examining the scattered pieces.

"I've found it!" cried the Shaggy Man, and ran to Dorothy with a
queer-shaped piece that had a mouth on it.  But when they tried to fit
it to the eye and nose they found the parts wouldn't match together.

"That mouth belongs to some other person," said Dorothy.  "You see we
need a curve here and a point there, to make it fit the face."

"Well, it must be here some place," declared the Wizard; "so if we
search long enough we shall find it."

Dorothy fitted an ear on next, and the ear had a little patch of red
hair above it.  So while the others were searching for the mouth she
hunted for pieces with red hair, and found several of them which, when
matched to the other pieces, formed the top of a man's head.  She had
also found the other eye and the ear by the time Omby Amby in a far
corner discovered the mouth.  When the face was thus completed, all the
parts joined together with a nicety that was astonishing.

"Why, it's like a picture puzzle!" exclaimed the little girl.  "Let's
find the rest of him, and get him all together."

"What's the rest of him like?" asked the Wizard.  "Here are some pieces
of blue legs and green arms, but I don't know whether they are his or
not."

"Look for a white shirt and a white apron," said the head which had
been put together, speaking in a rather faint voice.  "I'm the cook."

"Oh, thank you," said Dorothy.  "It's lucky we started you first, for
I'm hungry, and you can be cooking something for us to eat while we
match the other folks together."

It was not so very difficult, now that they had a hint as to how the
man was dressed, to find the other pieces belonging to him, and as all
of them now worked on the cook, trying piece after piece to see if it
would fit, they finally had the cook set up complete.

When he was finished he made them a low bow and said:

"I will go at once to the kitchen to prepare your dinner.  You will
find it something of a job to get all the Fuddles together, so I advise
you to begin on the Lord High Chigglewitz, whose first name is Larry.
He's a bald-headed fat man and is dressed in a blue coat with brass
buttons, a pink vest and drab breeches.  A piece of his left knee is
missing, having been lost years ago when he scattered himself too
carelessly.  That makes him limp a little, but he gets along very well
with half a knee.  As he is the chief personage in this town of
Fuddlecumjig, he will be able to welcome you and assist you with the
others.  So it will be best to work on him while I'm getting your
dinner."

"We will," said the Wizard; "and thank you very much, Cook, for the
suggestion."

Aunt Em was the first to discover a piece of the Lord High Chigglewitz.

"It seems to me like a fool business, this matching folks together,"
she remarked; "but as we haven't anything to do till dinner's ready, we
may as well get rid of some of this rubbish.  Here, Henry, get busy and
look for Larry's bald head.  I've got his pink vest, all right."

They worked with eager interest, and Billina proved a great help to
them.  The Yellow Hen had sharp eyes and could put her head close to
the various pieces that lay scattered around.  She would examine the
Lord High Chigglewitz and see which piece of him was next needed, and
then hunt around until she found it.  So before an hour had passed old
Larry was standing complete before them.

"I congratulate you, my friends," he said, speaking in a cheerful
voice.  "You are certainly the cleverest people who ever visited us.  I
was never matched together so quickly in my life.  I'm considered a
great puzzle, usually."

"Well," said Dorothy, "there used to be a picture puzzle craze in
Kansas, and so I've had some 'sperience matching puzzles.  But the
pictures were flat, while you are round, and that makes you harder to
figure out."

"Thank you, my dear," replied old Larry, greatly pleased.  "I feel
highly complimented.  Were I not a really good puzzle, there would be
no object in my scattering myself."

"Why do you do it?" asked Aunt Em, severely.  "Why don't you behave
yourself, and stay put together?"

The Lord High Chigglewitz seemed annoyed by this speech; but he
replied, politely:

"Madam, you have perhaps noticed that every person has some
peculiarity.  Mine is to scatter myself.  What your own peculiarity is
I will not venture to say; but I shall never find fault with you,
whatever you do."

"Now you've got your diploma, Em," said Uncle Henry, with a laugh, "and
I'm glad of it.  This is a queer country, and we may as well take
people as we find them."

"If we did, we'd leave these folks scattered," she returned, and this
retort made everybody laugh good-naturedly.

Just then Omby Amby found a hand with a knitting needle in it, and they
decided to put Grandmother Gnit together.  She proved an easier puzzle
than old Larry, and when she was completed they found her a pleasant
old lady who welcomed them cordially.  Dorothy told her how the
kangaroo had lost her mittens, and Grandmother Gnit promised to set to
work at once and make the poor animal another pair.

Then the cook came to call them to dinner, and they found an inviting
meal prepared for them.  The Lord High Chigglewitz sat at the head of
the table and Grandmother Gnit at the foot, and the guests had a merry
time and thoroughly enjoyed themselves.

After dinner they went out into the yard and matched several other
people together, and this work was so interesting that they might have
spent the entire day at Fuddlecumjig had not the Wizard suggested that
they resume their journey.

"But I don't like to leave all these poor people scattered," said
Dorothy, undecided what to do.

"Oh, don't mind us, my dear," returned old Larry.  "Every day or so
some of the Gillikins, or Munchkins, or Winkies come here to amuse
themselves by matching us together, so there will be no harm in leaving
these pieces where they are for a time.  But I hope you will visit us
again, and if you do you will always be welcome, I assure you."

"Don't you ever match each other?" she inquired.

"Never; for we are no puzzles to ourselves, and so there wouldn't be
any fun in it."

They now said goodbye to the queer Fuddles and got into their wagon to
continue their journey.

"Those are certainly strange people," remarked Aunt Em, thoughtfully,
as they drove away from Fuddlecumjig, "but I really can't see what use
they are, at all."

"Why, they amused us all for several hours," replied the Wizard.  "That
is being of use to us, I'm sure."

"I think they're more fun than playing solitaire or mumbletypeg,"
declared Uncle Henry, soberly.  "For my part, I'm glad we visited the
Fuddles."



13.  How the General Talked to the King

When General Guph returned to the cavern of the Nome King his Majesty
asked:

"Well, what luck?  Will the Whimsies join us?"

"They will," answered the General.  "They will fight for us with all
their strength and cunning."

"Good!" exclaimed the King.  "What reward did you promise them?"

"Your Majesty is to use the Magic Belt to give each Whimsie a large,
fine head, in place of the small one he is now obliged to wear."

"I agree to that," said the King.  "This is good news, Guph, and it
makes me feel more certain of the conquest of Oz."

"But I have other news for you," announced the General.

"Good or bad?"

"Good, your Majesty."

"Then I will hear it," said the King, with interest.

"The Growleywogs will join us."

"No!" cried the astonished King.

"Yes, indeed," said the General.  "I have their promise."

"But what reward do they demand?" inquired the King, suspiciously, for
he knew how greedy the Growleywogs were.

"They are to take a few of the Oz people for their slaves," replied
Guph.  He did not think it necessary to tell Roquat that the
Growleywogs demanded twenty thousand slaves.  It would be time enough
for that when Oz was conquered.

"A very reasonable request, I'm sure," remarked the King.  "I must
congratulate you, Guph, upon the wonderful success of your journey."

"But that is not all," said the General, proudly.

The King seemed astonished.  "Speak out, sir!" he commanded.

"I have seen the First and Foremost Phanfasm of the Mountain of
Phantastico, and he will bring his people to assist us."

"What!" cried the King.  "The Phanfasms!  You don't mean it, Guph!"

"It is true," declared the General, proudly.

The King became thoughtful, and his brows wrinkled.

"I'm afraid, Guph," he said rather anxiously, "that the First and
Foremost may prove as dangerous to us as to the Oz people.  If he and
his terrible band come down from the mountain they may take the notion
to conquer the Nomes!"

"Pah!  That is a foolish idea," retorted Guph, irritably, but he knew
in his heart that the King was right.  "The First and Foremost is a
particular friend of mine, and will do us no harm.  Why, when I was
there, he even invited me into his house."

The General neglected to tell the King how he had been jerked into the
hut of the First and Foremost by means of the brass hoop.  So Roquat
the Red looked at his General admiringly and said:

"You are a wonderful Nome, Guph.  I'm sorry I did not make you my
General before.  But what reward did the First and Foremost demand?"

"Nothing at all," answered Guph.  "Even the Magic Belt itself could not
add to his powers of sorcery.  All the Phanfasms wish is to destroy the
Oz people, who are good and happy.  This pleasure will amply repay them
for assisting us."

"When will they come?" asked Roquat, half fearfully.

"When the tunnel is completed," said the General.

"We are nearly halfway under the desert now," announced the King; "and
that is fast work, because the tunnel has to be drilled through solid
rock.  But after we have passed the desert it will not take us long to
extend the tunnel to the walls of the Emerald City."

"Well, whenever you are ready, we shall be joined by the Whimsies, the
Growleywogs and the Phanfasms," said Guph; "so the conquest of Oz is
assured without a doubt."

Again, the King seemed thoughtful.

"I'm almost sorry we did not undertake the conquest alone," said he.
"All of these allies are dangerous people, and they may demand more
than you have promised them.  It might have been better to have
conquered Oz without any outside assistance."

"We could not do it," said the General, positively.

"Why not, Guph?"

"You know very well.  You have had one experience with the Oz people,
and they defeated you."

"That was because they rolled eggs at us," replied the King, with a
shudder.  "My Nomes cannot stand eggs, any more than I can myself.
They are poison to all who live underground."

"That is true enough," agreed Guph.

"But we might have taken the Oz people by surprise, and conquered them
before they had a chance to get any eggs.  Our former defeat was due to
the fact that the girl Dorothy had a Yellow Hen with her.  I do not
know what ever became of that hen, but I believe there are no hens at
all in the Land of Oz, and so there could be no eggs there."

"On the contrary," said Guph, "there are now hundreds of chickens in
Oz, and they lay heaps of those dangerous eggs.  I met a goshawk on my
way home, and the bird informed me that he had lately been to Oz to
capture and devour some of the young chickens.  But they are protected
by magic, so the hawk did not get a single one of them."

"That is a very bad report," said the King, nervously.  "Very bad,
indeed.  My Nomes are willing to fight, but they simply can't face
hen's eggs--and I don't blame them."

"They won't need to face them," replied Guph.  "I'm afraid of eggs
myself, and don't propose to take any chances of being poisoned by
them.  My plan is to send the Whimsies through the tunnel first, and
then the Growleywogs and the Phanfasms.  By the time we Nomes get there
the eggs will all be used up, and we may then pursue and capture the
inhabitants at our leisure."

"Perhaps you are right," returned the King, with a dismal sigh.  "But I
want it distinctly understood that I claim Ozma and Dorothy as my own
prisoners.  They are rather nice girls, and I do not intend to let any
of those dreadful creatures hurt them, or make them their slaves.  When
I have captured them I will bring them here and transform them into
china ornaments to stand on my mantle.  They will look very
pretty--Dorothy on one end of the mantle and Ozma on the other--and I
shall take great care to see they are not broken when the maids dust
them."

"Very well, your Majesty.  Do what you will with the girls for all I
care.  Now that our plans are arranged, and we have the three most
powerful bands of evil spirits in the world to assist us, let us make
haste to get the tunnel finished as soon as possible."

"It will be ready in three days," promised the King, and hurried away
to inspect the work and see that the Nomes kept busy.



14.  How the Wizard Practiced Sorcery

"Where next?" asked the Wizard when they had left the town of
Fuddlecumjig and the Sawhorse had started back along the road.

"Why, Ozma laid out this trip," replied Dorothy, "and she 'vised us to
see the Rigmaroles next, and then visit the Tin Woodman."

"That sounds good," said the Wizard.  "But what road do we take to get
to the Rigmaroles?"

"I don't know, 'zactly," returned the little girl; "but it must be
somewhere just southwest from here."

"Then why need we go way back to the crossroads?" asked the Shaggy Man.
"We might save a lot of time by branching off here."

"There isn't any path," asserted Uncle Henry.

"Then we'd better go back to the signposts, and make sure of our way,"
decided Dorothy.

But after they had gone a short distance farther the Sawhorse, who had
overheard their conversation, stopped and said:

"Here is a path."

Sure enough, a dim path seemed to branch off from the road they were
on, and it led across pretty green meadows and past leafy groves,
straight toward the southwest.

"That looks like a good path," said Omby Amby.  "Why not try it?"

"All right," answered Dorothy.  "I'm anxious to see what the Rigmaroles
are like, and this path ought to take us there the quickest way."

No one made any objection to this plan, so the Sawhorse turned into the
path, which proved to be nearly as good as the one they had taken to
get to the Fuddles.  As first they passed a few retired farm houses,
but soon these scattered dwellings were left behind and only the
meadows and the trees were before them.  But they rode along in
cheerful contentment, and Aunt Em got into an argument with Billina
about the proper way to raise chickens.

"I do not care to contradict you," said the Yellow Hen, with dignity,
"but I have an idea I know more about chickens than human beings do."

"Pshaw!" replied Aunt Em.  "I've raised chickens for nearly forty
years, Billina, and I know you've got to starve 'em to make 'em lay
lots of eggs, and stuff 'em if you want good broilers."

"Broilers!" exclaimed Billina, in horror.  "Broil my chickens!"

"Why, that's what they're for, ain't it?" asked Aunt Em, astonished.

"No, Aunt, not in Oz," said Dorothy.  "People do not eat chickens here.
You see, Billina was the first hen that was ever seen in this country,
and I brought her here myself.  Everybody liked her an' respected her,
so the Oz people wouldn't any more eat her chickens than they would eat
Billina."

"Well, I declare," gasped Aunt Em.  "How about the eggs?"

"Oh, if we have more eggs than we want to hatch, we allow people to eat
them," said Billina.  "Indeed, I am very glad the Oz folks like our
eggs, for otherwise they would spoil."

"This certainly is a queer country," sighed Aunt Em.

"Excuse me," called the Sawhorse, "the path has ended and I'd like to
know which way to go."

They looked around and sure enough there was no path to be seen.

"Well," said Dorothy, "we're going southwest, and it seems just as easy
to follow that direction without a path as with one."

"Certainly," answered the Sawhorse.  "It is not hard to draw the wagon
over the meadow.  I only want to know where to go."

"There's a forest over there across the prairie," said the Wizard, "and
it lies in the direction we are going.  Make straight for the forest,
Sawhorse, and you're bound to go right."

So the wooden animal trotted on again and the meadow grass was so soft
under the wheels that it made easy riding.  But Dorothy was a little
uneasy at losing the path, because now there was nothing to guide them.

No houses were to be seen at all, so they could not ask their way of
any farmer; and although the Land of Oz was always beautiful, wherever
one might go, this part of the country was strange to all the party.

"Perhaps we're lost," suggested Aunt Em, after they had proceeded quite
a way in silence.

"Never mind," said the Shaggy Man; "I've been lost many a time--and so
has Dorothy--and we've always been found again."

"But we may get hungry," remarked Omby Amby.  "That is the worst of
getting lost in a place where there are no houses near."

"We had a good dinner at the Fuddle town," said Uncle Henry, "and that
will keep us from starving to death for a long time."

"No one ever starved to death in Oz," declared Dorothy, positively;
"but people may get pretty hungry sometimes."

The Wizard said nothing, and he did not seem especially anxious.  The
Sawhorse was trotting along briskly, yet the forest seemed farther away
than they had thought when they first saw it.  So it was nearly sundown
when they finally came to the trees; but now they found themselves in a
most beautiful spot, the wide-spreading trees being covered with
flowering vines and having soft mosses underneath them.  "This will be
a good place to camp," said the Wizard, as the Sawhorse stopped for
further instructions.

"Camp!" they all echoed.

"Certainly," asserted the Wizard.  "It will be dark before very long
and we cannot travel through this forest at night.  So let us make a
camp here, and have some supper, and sleep until daylight comes again."

They all looked at the little man in astonishment, and Aunt Em said,
with a sniff:

"A pretty camp we'll have, I must say!  I suppose you intend us to
sleep under the wagon."

"And chew grass for our supper," added the Shaggy Man, laughing.

But Dorothy seemed to have no doubts and was quite cheerful

"It's lucky we have the wonderful Wizard with us," she said; "because
he can do 'most anything he wants to."

"Oh, yes; I forgot we had a Wizard," said Uncle Henry, looking at the
little man curiously.

"I didn't," chirped Billina, contentedly.

The Wizard smiled and climbed out of the wagon, and all the others
followed him.

"In order to camp," said he, "the first thing we need is tents.  Will
some one please lend me a handkerchief?"

The Shaggy Man offered him one, and Aunt Em another.  He took them both
and laid them carefully upon the grass near to the edge of the forest.
Then he laid his own handkerchief down, too, and standing a little back
from them he waved his left hand toward the handkerchiefs and said:

  "Tents of canvas, white as snow,
  Let me see how fast you grow!"


Then, lo and behold! the handkerchiefs became tiny tents, and as the
travelers looked at them the tents grew bigger and bigger until in a
few minutes each one was large enough to contain the entire party.

"This," said the Wizard, pointing to the first tent, "is for the
accommodation of the ladies.  Dorothy, you and your Aunt may step
inside and take off your things."

Every one ran to look inside the tent, and they saw two pretty white
beds, all ready for Dorothy and Aunt Em, and a silver roost for
Billina.  Rugs were spread upon the grassy floor and some camp chairs
and a table completed the furniture.

"Well, well, well!  This beats anything I ever saw or heard of!"
exclaimed Aunt Em, and she glanced at the Wizard almost fearfully, as
if he might be dangerous because of his great powers.

"Oh, Mr. Wizard!  How did you manage to do it?" asked Dorothy.

"It's a trick Glinda the Sorceress taught me, and it is much better
magic than I used to practice in Omaha, or when I first came to Oz," he
answered.  "When the good Glinda found I was to live in the Emerald
City always, she promised to help me, because she said the Wizard of Oz
ought really to be a clever Wizard, and not a humbug.  So we have been
much together and I am learning so fast that I expect to be able to
accomplish some really wonderful things in time."

"You've done it now!" declared Dorothy.  "These tents are just
wonderful!"

"But come and see the men's tent," said the Wizard.  So they went to
the second tent, which had shaggy edges because it has been made from
the Shaggy Man's handkerchief, and found that completely furnished
also.  It contained four neat beds for Uncle Henry, Omby Amby, the
Shaggy Man and the Wizard.  Also there was a soft rug for Toto to lie
upon.

"The third tent," explained the Wizard, "is our dining room and
kitchen."

They visited that next, and found a table and dishes in the dining
tent, with plenty of those things necessary to use in cooking.  The
Wizard carried out a big kettle and set it swinging on a crossbar
before the tent.  While he was doing this Omby Amby and the Shaggy Man
brought a supply of twigs from the forest and then they built a fire
underneath the kettle.

"Now, Dorothy," said the Wizard, smiling, "I expect you to cook our
supper."

"But there is nothing in the kettle," she cried.

"Are you sure?" inquired the Wizard.

"I didn't see anything put in, and I'm almost sure it was empty when
you brought it out," she replied.

"Nevertheless," said the little man, winking slyly at Uncle Henry, "you
will do well to watch our supper, my dear, and see that it doesn't boil
over."

Then the men took some pails and went into the forest to search for a
spring of water, and while they were gone Aunt Em said to Dorothy:

"I believe the Wizard is fooling us.  I saw the kettle myself, and when
he hung it over the fire there wasn't a thing in it but air."

"Don't worry," remarked Billina, confidently, as she nestled in the
grass before the fire.  "You'll find something in the kettle when it's
taken off--and it won't be poor, innocent chickens, either."

"Your hen has very bad manners, Dorothy," said Aunt Em, looking
somewhat disdainfully at Billina.  "It seems too bad she ever learned
how to talk."

There might have been another unpleasant quarrel between Aunt Em and
Billina had not the men returned just then with their pails filled with
clear, sparkling water.  The Wizard told Dorothy that she was a good
cook and he believed their supper was ready.

So Uncle Henry lifted the kettle from the fire and poured its contents
into a big platter which the Wizard held for him.  The platter was
fairly heaped with a fine stew, smoking hot, with many kinds of
vegetables and dumplings and a rich, delicious gravy.

The Wizard triumphantly placed the platter upon the table in the dining
tent and then they all sat down in camp chairs to the feast.

There were several other dishes on the table, all carefully covered,
and when the time came to remove these covers they found bread and
butter, cakes, cheese, pickles and fruits--including some of the
luscious strawberries of Oz.

No one ventured to ask a question as to how these things came there.
They contented themselves by eating heartily the good things provided,
and Toto and Billina had their full share, you may be sure.  After the
meal was over, Aunt Em whispered to Dorothy:

"That may have been magic food, my dear, and for that reason perhaps it
won't be very nourishing; but I'm willing to say it tasted as good as
anything I ever et."  Then she added, in a louder voice: "Who's going
to do the dishes?"

"No one, madam," answered the Wizard.  "The dishes have 'done'
themselves."

"La sakes!" ejaculated the good lady, holding up her hands in
amazement.  For, sure enough, when she looked at the dishes they had a
moment before left upon the table, she found them all washed and dried
and piled up into neat stacks.



15.  How Dorothy Happened to Get Lost

It was a beautiful evening, so they drew their camp chairs in a circle
before one of the tents and began to tell stories to amuse themselves
and pass away the time before they went to bed.

Pretty soon a zebra was seen coming out of the forest, and he trotted
straight up to them and said politely:

"Good evening, people."

The zebra was a sleek little animal and had a slender head, a stubby
mane and a paint-brush tail--very like a donkey's.  His neatly shaped
white body was covered with regular bars of dark brown, and his hoofs
were delicate as those of a deer.

"Good evening, friend Zebra," said Omby Amby, in reply to the
creature's greeting.  "Can we do anything for you?"

"Yes," answered the zebra.  "I should like you to settle a dispute that
has long been a bother to me, as to whether there is more water or land
in the world."

"Who are you disputing with?" asked the Wizard.

"With a soft-shell crab," said the zebra.  "He lives in a pool where I
go to drink every day, and he is a very impertinent crab, I assure you.
I have told him many times that the land is much greater in extent than
the water, but he will not be convinced.  Even this very evening, when
I told him he was an insignificant creature who lived in a small pool,
he asserted that the water was greater and more important than the
land.  So, seeing your camp, I decided to ask you to settle the dispute
for once and all, that I may not be further annoyed by this ignorant
crab."

When they had listened to this explanation Dorothy inquired:

"Where is the soft-shell crab?"

"Not far away," replied the zebra.  "If you will agree to judge between
us I will run and get him."

"Run along, then," said the little girl.

So the animal pranced into the forest and soon came trotting back to
them.  When he drew near they found a soft-shell crab clinging fast to
the stiff hair of the zebra's head, where it held on by one claw.

"Now then, Mr. Crab," said the zebra, "here are the people I told you
about; and they know more than you do, who lives in a pool, and more
than I do, who lives in a forest.  For they have been travelers all
over the world, and know every part of it."

"There is more of the world than Oz," declared the crab, in a stubborn
voice.

"That is true," said Dorothy; "but I used to live in Kansas, in the
United States, and I've been to California and to Australia and so has
Uncle Henry."

"For my part," added the Shaggy Man, "I've been to Mexico and Boston
and many other foreign countries."

"And I," said the Wizard, "have been to Europe and Ireland."

"So you see," continued the zebra, addressing the crab, "here are
people of real consequence, who know what they are talking about."

"Then they know there's more water in the world than there is land,"
asserted the crab, in a shrill, petulant voice.

"They know you are wrong to make such an absurd statement, and they
will probably think you are a lobster instead of a crab," retorted the
animal.

At this taunt the crab reached out its other claw and seized the
zebra's ear, and the creature gave a cry of pain and began prancing up
and down, trying to shake off the crab, which clung fast.

"Stop pinching!" cried the zebra.  "You promised not to pinch if I
would carry you here!"

"And you promised to treat me respectfully," said the crab, letting go
the ear.

"Well, haven't I?" demanded the zebra.

"No; you called me a lobster," said the crab.

"Ladies and gentlemen," continued the zebra, "please pardon my poor
friend, because he is ignorant and stupid, and does not understand.
Also the pinch of his claw is very annoying.  So pray tell him that the
world contains more land than water, and when he has heard your
judgment I will carry him back and dump him into his pool, where I hope
he will be more modest in the future."

"But we cannot tell him that," said Dorothy, gravely, "because it would
not be true."

"What!" exclaimed the zebra, in astonishment; "do I hear you aright?"

"The soft-shell crab is correct," declared the Wizard.  "There is
considerably more water than there is land in the world."

"Impossible!" protested the zebra.  "Why, I can run for days upon the
land, and find but little water."

"Did you ever see an ocean?" asked Dorothy.

"Never," admitted the zebra.  "There is no such thing as an ocean in
the Land of Oz."

"Well, there are several oceans in the world," said Dorothy, "and
people sail in ships upon these oceans for weeks and weeks, and never
see a bit of land at all.  And the joggerfys will tell you that all the
oceans put together are bigger than all the land put together."

At this the crab began laughing in queer chuckles that reminded Dorothy
of the way Billina sometimes cackled.

"NOW will you give up, Mr. Zebra?" it cried, jeeringly; "now will you
give up?"

The zebra seemed much humbled.

"Of course I cannot read geographys," he said.

"You could take one of the Wizard's School Pills," suggested Billina,
"and that would make you learned and wise without studying."

The crab began laughing again, which so provoked the zebra that he
tried to shake the little creature off.  This resulted in more
ear-pinching, and finally Dorothy told them that if they could not
behave they must go back to the forest.

"I'm sorry I asked you to decide this question," said the zebra,
crossly.  "So long as neither of us could prove we were right we quite
enjoyed the dispute; but now I can never drink at that pool again
without the soft-shell crab laughing at me.  So I must find another
drinking place."

"Do!  Do, you ignoramus!" shouted the crab, as loudly as his little
voice would carry.  "Rile some other pool with your clumsy hoofs, and
let your betters alone after this!"

Then the zebra trotted back to the forest, bearing the crab with him,
and disappeared amid the gloom of the trees.  And as it was now getting
dark the travelers said good night to one another and went to bed.

Dorothy awoke just as the light was beginning to get strong next
morning, and not caring to sleep any later she quietly got out of bed,
dressed herself, and left the tent where Aunt Em was yet peacefully
slumbering.

Outside she noticed Billina busily pecking around to secure bugs or
other food for breakfast, but none of the men in the other tent seemed
awake.  So the little girl decided to take a walk in the woods and try
to discover some path or road that they might follow when they again
started upon their journey.

She had reached the edge of the forest when the Yellow Hen came
fluttering along and asked where she was going.

"Just to take a walk, Billina; and maybe I'll find some path," said
Dorothy.

"Then I'll go along," decided Billina, and scarcely had she spoken when
Toto ran up and joined them.

Toto and the Yellow Hen had become quite friendly by this time,
although at first they did not get along well together.  Billina had
been rather suspicious of dogs, and Toto had had an idea that it was
every dog's duty to chase a hen on sight.  But Dorothy had talked to
them and scolded them for not being agreeable to one another until they
grew better acquainted and became friends.

I won't say they loved each other dearly, but at least they had stopped
quarreling and now managed to get on together very well.

The day was growing lighter every minute and driving the black shadows
out of the forest; so Dorothy found it very pleasant walking under the
trees.  She went some distance in one direction, but not finding a
path, presently turned in a different direction.  There was no path
here, either, although she advanced quite a way into the forest,
winding here and there among the trees and peering through the bushes
in an endeavor to find some beaten track.

"I think we'd better go back," suggested the Yellow Hen, after a time.
"The people will all be up by this time and breakfast will be ready."

"Very well," agreed Dorothy.  "Let's see--the camp must be over this
way."

She had probably made a mistake about that, for after they had gone far
enough to have reached the camp they still found themselves in the
thick of the woods.  So the little girl stopped short and looked around
her, and Toto glanced up into her face with his bright little eyes and
wagged his tail as if he knew something was wrong.  He couldn't tell
much about direction himself, because he had spent his time prowling
among the bushes and running here and there; nor had Billina paid much
attention to where they were going, being interested in picking bugs
from the moss as they passed along.  The Yellow Hen now turned one eye
up toward the little girl and asked:

"Have you forgotten where the camp is, Dorothy?"

"Yes," she admitted; "have you, Billina?"

"I didn't try to remember," returned Billina.  "I'd no idea you would
get lost, Dorothy."

"It's the thing we don't expect, Billina, that usually happens,"
observed the girl, thoughtfully.  "But it's no use standing here.
Let's go in that direction," pointing a finger at random.  "It may be
we'll get out of the forest over there."

So on they went again, but this way the trees were closer together, and
the vines were so tangled that often they tripped Dorothy up.

Suddenly a voice cried sharply:

"Halt!"

At first, Dorothy could see nothing, although she looked around very
carefully.  But Billina exclaimed:

"Well, I declare!"

"What is it?" asked the little girl: for Toto began barking at
something, and following his gaze she discovered what it was.

A row of spoons had surrounded the three, and these spoons stood
straight up on their handles and carried swords and muskets.  Their
faces were outlined in the polished bowls and they looked very stern
and severe.

Dorothy laughed at the queer things.

"Who are you?" she asked.

"We're the Spoon Brigade," said one.

"In the service of his Majesty King Kleaver," said another.

"And you are our prisoners," said a third.

Dorothy sat down on an old stump and looked at them, her eyes twinkling
with amusement.

"What would happen," she inquired, "if I should set my dog on your
Brigade?"

"He would die," replied one of the spoons, sharply.  "One shot from our
deadly muskets would kill him, big as he is."

"Don't risk it, Dorothy," advised the Yellow Hen.  "Remember this is a
fairy country, yet none of us three happens to be a fairy."

Dorothy grew sober at this.

"P'raps you're right, Billina," she answered.  "But how funny it is, to
be captured by a lot of spoons!"

"I do not see anything very funny about it," declared a spoon.  "We're
the regular military brigade of the kingdom."

"What kingdom?" she asked.

"Utensia," said he.

"I never heard of it before," asserted Dorothy.  Then she added
thoughtfully, "I don't believe Ozma ever heard of Utensia, either.
Tell me, are you not subjects of Ozma of Oz?"

"We have never heard of her," retorted a spoon.  "We are subjects of
King Kleaver, and obey only his orders, which are to bring all
prisoners to him as soon as they are captured.  So step lively, my
girl, and march with us, or we may be tempted to cut off a few of your
toes with our swords."

This threat made Dorothy laugh again.  She did not believe she was in
any danger; but here was a new and interesting adventure, so she was
willing to be taken to Utensia that she might see what King Kleaver's
kingdom was like.



16.  How Dorothy Visited Utensia

There must have been from six to eight dozen spoons in the Brigade, and
they marched away in the shape of a hollow square, with Dorothy,
Billina and Toto in the center of the square.  Before they had gone
very far Toto knocked over one of the spoons by wagging his tail, and
then the Captain of the Spoons told the little dog to be more careful,
or he would be punished.  So Toto was careful, and the Spoon Brigade
moved along with astonishing swiftness, while Dorothy really had to
walk fast to keep up with it.

By and by they left the woods and entered a big clearing, in which was
the Kingdom of Utensia.

Standing all around the clearing were a good many cookstoves, ranges
and grills, of all sizes and shapes, and besides these there were
several kitchen cabinets and cupboards and a few kitchen tables.  These
things were crowded with utensils of all sorts: frying pans, sauce
pans, kettles, forks, knives, basting and soup spoons, nutmeg graters,
sifters, colanders, meat saws, flat irons, rolling pins and many other
things of a like nature.

When the Spoon Brigade appeared with the prisoners a wild shout arose
and many of the utensils hopped off their stoves or their benches and
ran crowding around Dorothy and the hen and the dog.

"Stand back!" cried the Captain, sternly, and he led his captives
through the curious throng until they came before a big range that
stood in the center of the clearing.  Beside this range was a butcher
block upon which lay a great cleaver with a keen edge.  It rested upon
the flat of its back, its legs were crossed and it was smoking a long
pipe.

"Wake up, your Majesty," said the Captain.  "Here are prisoners."

Hearing this, King Kleaver sat up and looked at Dorothy sharply.

"Gristle and fat!" he cried.  "Where did this girl come from?"

"I found her in the forest and brought her here a prisoner," replied
the Captain.

"Why did you do that?" inquired the King, puffing his pipe lazily.

"To create some excitement," the Captain answered.  "It is so quiet
here that we are all getting rusty for want of amusement.  For my part,
I prefer to see stirring times."

"Naturally," returned the cleaver, with a nod.  "I have always said,
Captain, without a bit of irony, that you are a sterling officer and a
solid citizen, bowled and polished to a degree.  But what do you expect
me to do with these prisoners?"

"That is for you to decide," declared the Captain.  "You are the King."

"To be sure; to be sure," muttered the cleaver, musingly.  "As you say,
we have had dull times since the steel and grindstone eloped and left
us.  Command my Counselors and the Royal Courtiers to attend me, as
well as the High Priest and the Judge.  We'll then decide what can be
done."

The Captain saluted and retired and Dorothy sat down on an overturned
kettle and asked:

"Have you anything to eat in your kingdom?"

"Here!  Get up!  Get off from me!" cried a faint voice, at which his
Majesty the cleaver said:

"Excuse me, but you're sitting on my friend the Ten-quart Kettle."

Dorothy at once arose, and the kettle turned right side up and looked
at her reproachfully.

"I'm a friend of the King, so no one dares sit on me," said he.

"I'd prefer a chair, anyway," she replied.

"Sit on that hearth," commanded the King.

So Dorothy sat on the hearth-shelf of the big range, and the subjects
of Utensia began to gather around in a large and inquisitive throng.
Toto lay at Dorothy's feet and Billina flew upon the range, which had
no fire in it, and perched there as comfortably as she could.

When all the Counselors and Courtiers had assembled--and these seemed
to include most of the inhabitants of the kingdom--the King rapped on
the block for order and said:

"Friends and Fellow Utensils!  Our worthy Commander of the Spoon
Brigade, Captain Dipp, has captured the three prisoners you see before
you and brought them here for--for--I don't know what for.  So I ask
your advice how to act in this matter, and what fate I should mete out
to these captives.  Judge Sifter, stand on my right.  It is your
business to sift this affair to the bottom.  High Priest Colender,
stand on my left and see that no one testifies falsely in this matter."

As these two officials took their places, Dorothy asked:

"Why is the colander the High Priest?"

"He's the holiest thing we have in the kingdom," replied King Kleaver.

"Except me," said a sieve.  "I'm the whole thing when it comes to
holes."

"What we need," remarked the King, rebukingly, "is a wireless sieve.  I
must speak to Marconi about it.  These old-fashioned sieves talk too
much.  Now, it is the duty of the King's Counselors to counsel the King
at all times of emergency, so I beg you to speak out and advise me what
to do with these prisoners."

"I demand that they be killed several times, until they are dead!"
shouted a pepperbox, hopping around very excitedly.

"Compose yourself, Mr. Paprica," advised the King.  "Your remarks are
piquant and highly-seasoned, but you need a scattering of commonsense.
It is only necessary to kill a person once to make him dead; but I do
not see that it is necessary to kill this little girl at all."

"I don't, either," said Dorothy.

"Pardon me, but you are not expected to advise me in this matter,"
replied King Kleaver.

"Why not?" asked Dorothy.

"You might be prejudiced in your own favor, and so mislead us," he
said.  "Now then, good subjects, who speaks next?"

"I'd like to smooth this thing over, in some way," said a flatiron,
earnestly.  "We are supposed to be useful to mankind, you know."

"But the girl isn't mankind!  She's womankind!" yelled a corkscrew.

"What do you know about it?" inquired the King.

"I'm a lawyer," said the corkscrew, proudly.  "I am accustomed to
appear at the bar."

"But you're crooked," retorted the King, "and that debars you.  You may
be a corking good lawyer, Mr. Popp, but I must ask you to withdraw your
remarks."

"Very well," said the corkscrew, sadly; "I see I haven't any pull at
this court."

"Permit me," continued the flatiron, "to press my suit, your Majesty.
I do not wish to gloss over any fault the prisoner may have committed,
if such a fault exists; but we owe her some consideration, and that's
flat!"

"I'd like to hear from Prince Karver," said the King.

At this a stately carvingknife stepped forward and bowed.

"The Captain was wrong to bring this girl here, and she was wrong to
come," he said.  "But now that the foolish deed is done let us all
prove our mettle and have a slashing good time."

"That's it! that's it!" screamed a fat choppingknife.  "We'll make
mincemeat of the girl and hash of the chicken and sausage of the dog!"

There was a shout of approval at this and the King had to rap again for
order.

"Gentlemen, gentlemen!" he said, "your remarks are somewhat cutting and
rather disjointed, as might be expected from such acute intellects.
But you give me no reasons for your demands."

"See here, Kleaver; you make me tired," said a saucepan, strutting
before the King very impudently.  "You're about the worst King that
ever reigned in Utensia, and that's saying a good deal.  Why don't you
run things yourself, instead of asking everybody's advice, like the
big, clumsy idiot you are?"

The King sighed.

"I wish there wasn't a saucepan in my kingdom," he said.  "You fellows
are always stewing, over something, and every once in a while you slop
over and make a mess of it.  Go hang yourself, sir--by the handle--and
don't let me hear from you again."

Dorothy was much shocked by the dreadful language the utensils
employed, and she thought that they must have had very little proper
training.  So she said, addressing the King, who seemed very unfit to
rule his turbulent subjects:

"I wish you'd decide my fate right away.  I can't stay here all day,
trying to find out what you're going to do with me."

"This thing is becoming a regular broil, and it's time I took part in
it," observed a big gridiron, coming forward.

"What I'd like to know," said a can-opener, in a shrill voice, "is why
the little girl came to our forest anyhow and why she intruded upon
Captain Dipp--who ought to be called Dippy--and who she is, and where
she came from, and where she is going, and why and wherefore and
therefore and when."

"I'm sorry to see, Sir Jabber," remarked the King to the can-opener,
"that you have such a prying disposition.  As a matter of fact, all the
things you mention are none of our business."

Having said this the King relighted his pipe, which had gone out.

"Tell me, please, what IS our business?" inquired a potato-masher,
winking at Dorothy somewhat impertinently.  "I'm fond of little girls,
myself, and it seems to me she has as much right to wander in the
forest as we have."

"Who accuses the little girl, anyway?" inquired a rolling-pin.  "What
has she done?"

"I don't know," said the King.  "What has she done, Captain Dipp?"

"That's the trouble, your Majesty.  She hasn't done anything," replied
the Captain.

"What do you want me to do?" asked Dorothy.

This question seemed to puzzle them all.  Finally, a chafingdish,
exclaimed irritably:

"If no one can throw any light on this subject you must excuse me if I
go out."

At this, a big kitchen fork pricked up its ears and said in a tiny
voice:

"Let's hear from Judge Sifter."

"That's proper," returned the King.

So Judge Sifter turned around slowly several times and then said:

"We have nothing against the girl except the stove-hearth upon which
she sits.  Therefore I order her instantly discharged."

"Discharged!" cried Dorothy.  "Why, I never was discharged in my life,
and I don't intend to be.  If it's all the same to you, I'll resign."

"It's all the same," declared the King.  "You are free--you and your
companions--and may go wherever you like."

"Thank you," said the little girl.  "But haven't you anything to eat in
your kingdom?  I'm hungry."

"Go into the woods and pick blackberries," advised the King, lying down
upon his back again and preparing to go to sleep.  "There isn't a
morsel to eat in all Utensia, that I know of."

So Dorothy jumped up and said:

"Come on, Toto and Billina.  If we can't find the camp, we may find
some blackberries."

The utensils drew back and allowed them to pass without protest,
although Captain Dipp marched the Spoon Brigade in close order after
them until they had reached the edge of the clearing.

There the spoons halted; but Dorothy and her companions entered the
forest again and began searching diligently for a way back to the camp,
that they might rejoin their party.



17.  How They Came to Bunbury

Wandering through the woods, without knowing where you are going or
what adventure you are about to meet next, is not as pleasant as one
might think.  The woods are always beautiful and impressive, and if you
are not worried or hungry you may enjoy them immensely; but Dorothy was
worried and hungry that morning, so she paid little attention to the
beauties of the forest, and hurried along as fast as she could go.  She
tried to keep in one direction and not circle around, but she was not
at all sure that the direction she had chosen would lead her to the
camp.

By and by, to her great joy, she came upon a path.  It ran to the right
and to the left, being lost in the trees in both directions, and just
before her, upon a big oak, were fastened two signs, with arms pointing
both ways.  One sign read:


TAKE THE OTHER ROAD TO BUNBURY


and the second sign read:


TAKE THE OTHER ROAD TO BUNNYBURY


"Well!" exclaimed Billina, eyeing the signs, "this looks as if we were
getting back to civilization again."

"I'm not sure about the civil'zation, dear," replied the little girl;
"but it looks as if we might get SOMEWHERE, and that's a big relief,
anyhow."

"Which path shall we take?" inquired the Yellow Hen.

Dorothy stared at the signs thoughtfully.

"Bunbury sounds like something to eat," she said.  "Let's go there."

"It's all the same to me," replied Billina.  She had picked up enough
bugs and insects from the moss as she went along to satisfy her own
hunger, but the hen knew Dorothy could not eat bugs; nor could Toto.

The path to Bunbury seemed little traveled, but it was distinct enough
and ran through the trees in a zigzag course until it finally led them
to an open space filled with the queerest houses Dorothy had ever seen.
They were all made of crackers laid out in tiny squares, and were of
many pretty and ornamental shapes, having balconies and porches with
posts of bread-sticks and roofs shingled with wafer-crackers.

There were walks of bread-crusts leading from house to house and
forming streets, and the place seemed to have many inhabitants.

When Dorothy, followed by Billina and Toto, entered the place, they
found people walking the streets or assembled in groups talking
together, or sitting upon the porches and balconies.

And what funny people they were!

Men, women and children were all made of buns and bread.  Some were
thin and others fat; some were white, some light brown and some very
dark of complexion.  A few of the buns, which seemed to form the more
important class of the people, were neatly frosted.  Some had raisins
for eyes and currant buttons on their clothes; others had eyes of
cloves and legs of stick cinnamon, and many wore hats and bonnets
frosted pink and green.

There was something of a commotion in Bunbury when the strangers
suddenly appeared among them.  Women caught up their children and
hurried into their houses, shutting the cracker doors carefully behind
them.  Some men ran so hastily that they tumbled over one another,
while others, more brave, assembled in a group and faced the intruders
defiantly.

Dorothy at once realized that she must act with caution in order not to
frighten these shy people, who were evidently unused to the presence of
strangers.  There was a delightful fragrant odor of fresh bread in the
town, and this made the little girl more hungry than ever.  She told
Toto and Billina to stay back while she slowly advanced toward the
group that stood silently awaiting her.

"You must 'scuse me for coming unexpected," she said, softly, "but I
really didn't know I was coming here until I arrived.  I was lost in
the woods, you know, and I'm as hungry as anything."

"Hungry!" they murmured, in a horrified chorus.

"Yes; I haven't had anything to eat since last night's supper," she
exclaimed.  "Are there any eatables in Bunbury?"

They looked at one another undecidedly, and then one portly bun man,
who seemed a person of consequence, stepped forward and said:

"Little girl, to be frank with you, we are all eatables.  Everything in
Bunbury is eatable to ravenous human creatures like you.  But it is to
escape being eaten and destroyed that we have secluded ourselves in
this out-of-the-way place, and there is neither right nor justice in
your coming here to feed upon us."

Dorothy looked at him longingly.

"You're bread, aren't you?" she asked.

"Yes; bread and butter.  The butter is inside me, so it won't melt and
run.  I do the running myself."

At this joke all the others burst into a chorus of laughter, and
Dorothy thought they couldn't be much afraid if they could laugh like
that.

"Couldn't I eat something besides people?" she asked.  "Couldn't I eat
just one house, or a side-walk or something?  I wouldn't mind much what
it was, you know."

"This is not a public bakery, child," replied the man, sternly.  "It's
private property."

"I know Mr.--Mr.--"

"My name is C. Bunn, Esquire," said the man.  "'C' stands for Cinnamon,
and this place is called after my family, which is the most
aristocratic in the town."

"Oh, I don't know about that," objected another of the queer people.
"The Grahams and the Browns and Whites are all excellent families, and
there is none better of their kind.  I'm a Boston Brown, myself."

"I admit you are all desirable citizens," said Mr. Bunn rather stiffly;
"but the fact remains that our town is called Bunbury."

"'Scuse me," interrupted Dorothy; "but I'm getting hungrier every
minute.  Now, if you're polite and kind, as I'm sure you ought to be,
you'll let me eat SOMETHING.  There's so much to eat here that you will
never miss it."

Then a big, puffed-up man, of a delicate brown color, stepped forward
and said:

"I think it would be a shame to send this child away hungry, especially
as she agrees to eat whatever we can spare and not touch our people."

"So do I, Pop," replied a Roll who stood near.

"What, then, do you suggest, Mr. Over?" inquired Mr. Bunn.

"Why, I'll let her eat my back fence, if she wants to.  It's made of
waffles, and they're very crisp and nice."

"She may also eat my wheelbarrow," added a pleasant looking Muffin.
"It's made of nabiscos with a zuzu wheel."

"Very good; very good," remarked Mr. Bunn.  "That is certainly very
kind of you.  Go with Pop Over and Mr. Muffin, little girl, and they
will feed you."

"Thank you very much," said Dorothy, gratefully.  "May I bring my dog
Toto, and the Yellow Hen?  They're hungry, too."

"Will you make them behave?" asked the Muffin.

"Of course," promised Dorothy.

"Then come along," said Pop Over.

So Dorothy and Billina and Toto walked up the street and the people
seemed no longer to be at all afraid of them.  Mr. Muffin's house came
first, and as his wheelbarrow stood in the front yard the little girl
ate that first.  It didn't seem very fresh, but she was so hungry that
she was not particular.  Toto ate some, too, while Billina picked up
the crumbs.

While the strangers were engaged in eating, many of the people came and
stood in the street curiously watching them.  Dorothy noticed six
roguish looking brown children standing all in a row, and she asked:

"Who are you, little ones?"

"We're the Graham Gems," replied one; "and we're all twins."

"I wonder if your mother could spare one or two of you?" asked Billina,
who decided that they were fresh baked; but at this dangerous question
the six little gems ran away as fast as they could go.

"You musn't say such things, Billina," said Dorothy, reprovingly.  "Now
let's go into Pop Over's back yard and get the waffles."

"I sort of hate to let that fence go," remarked Mr. Over, nervously, as
they walked toward his house.  "The neighbors back of us are Soda
Biscuits, and I don't care to mix with them."

"But I'm hungry yet," declared the girl.  "That wheelbarrow wasn't very
big."

"I've got a shortcake piano, but none of my family can play on it," he
said, reflectively.  "Suppose you eat that."

"All right," said Dorothy; "I don't mind.  Anything to be
accommodating."

So Mr. Over led her into the house, where she ate the piano, which was
of an excellent flavor.

"Is there anything to drink here?" she asked.

"Yes; I've a milk pump and a water pump; which will you have?" he asked.

"I guess I'll try 'em both," said Dorothy.

So Mr. Over called to his wife, who brought into the yard a pail made
of some kind of baked dough, and Dorothy pumped the pail full of cool,
sweet milk and drank it eagerly.

The wife of Pop Over was several shades darker than her husband.

"Aren't you overdone?" the little girl asked her.

"No indeed," answered the woman.  "I'm neither overdone nor done over;
I'm just Mrs. Over, and I'm the President of the Bunbury Breakfast
Band."

Dorothy thanked them for their hospitality and went away.  At the gate
Mr. Cinnamon Bunn met her and said he would show her around the town.
"We have some very interesting inhabitants," he remarked, walking
stiffly beside her on his stick-cinnamon legs; "and all of us who are
in good health are well bred.  If you are no longer hungry we will call
upon a few of the most important citizens."

Toto and Billina followed behind them, behaving very well, and a little
way down the street they came to a handsome residence where Aunt Sally
Lunn lived.  The old lady was glad to meet the little girl and gave her
a slice of white bread and butter which had been used as a door-mat.
It was almost fresh and tasted better than anything Dorothy had eaten
in the town.

"Where do you get the butter?" she inquired.

"We dig it out of the ground, which, as you may have observed, is all
flour and meal," replied Mr. Bunn.  "There is a butter mine just at the
opposite side of the village.  The trees which you see here are all
doughleanders and doughderas, and in the season we get quite a crop of
dough-nuts off them."

"I should think the flour would blow around and get into your eyes,"
said Dorothy.

"No," said he; "we are bothered with cracker dust sometimes, but never
with flour."

Then he took her to see Johnny Cake, a cheerful old gentleman who lived
near by.

"I suppose you've heard of me," said old Johnny, with an air of pride.
"I'm a great favorite all over the world."

"Aren't you rather yellow?" asked Dorothy, looking at him critically.

"Maybe, child.  But don't think I'm bilious, for I was never in better
health in my life," replied the old gentleman.  "If anything ailed me,
I'd willingly acknowledge the corn."

"Johnny's a trifle stale," said Mr. Bunn, as they went away; "but he's
a good mixer and never gets cross-grained.  I will now take you to call
upon some of my own relatives."  They visited the Sugar Bunns, the
Currant Bunns and the Spanish Bunns, the latter having a decidedly
foreign appearance.  Then they saw the French Rolls, who were very
polite to them, and made a brief call upon the Parker H. Rolls, who
seemed a bit proud and overbearing.

"But they're not as stuck up as the Frosted Jumbles," declared Mr.
Bunn, "who are people I really can't abide.  I don't like to be
suspicious or talk scandal, but sometimes I think the Jumbles have too
much baking powder in them."

Just then a dreadful scream was heard, and Dorothy turned hastily
around to find a scene of great excitement a little way down the
street.  The people were crowding around Toto and throwing at him
everything they could find at hand.  They pelted the little dog with
hard-tack, crackers, and even articles of furniture which were hard
baked and heavy enough for missiles.

Toto howeled a little as the assortment of bake stuff struck him; but
he stood still, with head bowed and tail between his legs, until
Dorothy ran up and inquired what the matter was.

"Matter!" cried a rye loafer, indignantly, "why the horrid beast has
eaten three of our dear Crumpets, and is now devouring a Salt-rising
Biscuit!"

"Oh, Toto!  How could you?" exclaimed Dorothy, much distressed.

Toto's mouth was full of his salt-rising victim; so he only whined and
wagged his tail.  But Billina, who had flown to the top of a cracker
house to be in a safe place, called out:

"Don't blame him, Dorothy; the Crumpets dared him to do it."

"Yes, and you pecked out the eyes of a Raisin Bunn--one of our best
citizens!" shouted a bread pudding, shaking its fist at the Yellow Hen.

"What's that!  What's that?" wailed Mr. Cinnamon Bunn, who had now
joined them.  "Oh, what a misfortune--what a terrible misfortune!"

"See here," said Dorothy, determined to defend her pets, "I think we've
treated you all pretty well, seeing you're eatables an' reg'lar food
for us.  I've been kind to you and eaten your old wheelbarrows and
pianos and rubbish, an' not said a word.  But Toto and Billina can't be
'spected to go hungry when the town's full of good things they like to
eat, 'cause they can't understand your stingy ways as I do."

"You must leave here at once!" said Mr. Bunn, sternly.

"Suppose we won't go?" said Dorothy, who was now much provoked.

"Then," said he, "we will put you into the great ovens where we are
made, and bake you."

Dorothy gazed around and saw threatening looks upon the faces of all.
She had not noticed any ovens in the town, but they might be there,
nevertheless, for some of the inhabitants seemed very fresh.  So she
decided to go, and calling to Toto and Billina to follow her she
marched up the street with as much dignity as possible, considering
that she was followed by the hoots and cries of the buns and biscuits
and other bake stuff.



18.  How Ozma Looked into the Magic Picture

Princess Ozma was a very busy little ruler, for she looked carefully
after the comfort and welfare of her people and tried to make them
happy.  If any quarrels arose she decided them justly; if any one
needed counsel or advice she was ready and willing to listen to them.

For a day or two after Dorothy and her companions had started on their
trip, Ozma was occupied with the affairs of her kingdom.  Then she
began to think of some manner of occupation for Uncle Henry and Aunt Em
that would be light and easy and yet give the old people something to
do.

She soon decided to make Uncle Henry the Keeper of the Jewels, for some
one really was needed to count and look after the bins and barrels of
emeralds, diamonds, rubies and other precious stones that were in the
Royal Storehouses.  That would keep Uncle Henry busy enough, but it was
harder to find something for Aunt Em to do.  The palace was full of
servants, so there was no detail of housework that Aunt Em could look
after.

While Ozma sat in her pretty room engaged in thought she happened to
glance at her Magic Picture.

This was one of the most important treasures in all the Land of Oz.  It
was a large picture, set in a beautiful gold frame, and it hung in a
prominent place upon a wall of Ozma's private room.

Usually this picture seemed merely a country scene, but whenever Ozma
looked at it and wished to know what any of her friends or
acquaintances were doing, the magic of this wonderful picture was
straightway disclosed.  For the country scene would gradually fade away
and in its place would appear the likeness of the person or persons
Ozma might wish to see, surrounded by the actual scenes in which they
were then placed.  In this way the Princess could view any part of the
world she wished, and watch the actions of any one in whom she was
interested.

Ozma had often seen Dorothy in her Kansas home by this means, and now,
having a little leisure, she expressed a desire to see her little
friend again.  It was while the travelers were at Fuddlecumjig, and
Ozma laughed merrily as she watched in the picture her friends trying
to match the pieces of Grandmother Gnit.

"They seem happy and are doubtless having a good time," the girl Ruler
said to herself; and then she began to think of the many adventures she
herself had encountered with Dorothy.

The image of her friends now faded from the Magic Picture and the old
landscape slowly reappeared.

Ozma was thinking of the time when with Dorothy and her army she
marched to the Nome King's underground cavern, beyond the Land of Ev,
and forced the old monarch to liberate his captives, who belonged to
the Royal Family of Ev.  That was the time when the Scarecrow nearly
frightened the Nome King into fits by throwing one of Billina's eggs at
him, and Dorothy had captured King Roquat's Magic Belt and brought it
away with her to the Land of Oz.

The pretty Princess smiled at the recollection of this adventure, and
then she wondered what had become of the Nome King since then.  Merely
because she was curious and had nothing better to do, Ozma glanced at
the Magic Picture and wished to see in it the King of the Nomes.

Roquat the Red went every day into his tunnel to see how the work was
getting along and to hurry his workmen as much as possible.  He was
there now, and Ozma saw him plainly in the Magic Picture.

She saw the underground tunnel, reaching far underneath the Deadly
Desert which separated the Land of Oz from the mountains beneath which
the Nome King had his extensive caverns.  She saw that the tunnel was
being made in the direction of the Emerald City, and knew at once it
was being dug so that the army of Nomes could march through it and
attack her own beautiful and peaceful country.

"I suppose King Roquat is planning revenge against us," she said,
musingly, "and thinks he can surprise us and make us his captives and
slaves.  How sad it is that any one can have such wicked thoughts!  But
I must not blame King Roquat too severely, for he is a Nome, and his
nature is not so gentle as my own."

Then she dismissed from her mind further thought of the tunnel, for
that time, and began to wonder if Aunt Em would not be happy as Royal
Mender of the Stockings of the Ruler of Oz.  Ozma wore few holes in her
stockings; still, they sometimes needed mending.  Aunt Em ought to be
able to do that very nicely.

Next day, the Princess watched the tunnel again in her Magic Picture,
and every day afterward she devoted a few minutes to inspecting the
work.  It was not especially interesting, but she felt that it was her
duty.

Slowly but surely the big, arched hole crept through the rocks
underneath the deadly desert, and day by day it drew nearer and nearer
to the Emerald City.



19.  How Bunnybury Welcomed the Strangers

Dorothy left Bunbury the same way she had entered it and when they were
in the forest again she said to Billina:

"I never thought that things good to eat could be so dis'gree'ble."

"Often I've eaten things that tasted good but were disagreeable
afterward," returned the Yellow Hen.  "I think, Dorothy, if eatables
are going to act badly, it's better before than after you eat them."

"P'raps you're right," said the little girl, with a sigh.  "But what
shall we do now?"

"Let us follow the path back to the signpost," suggested Billina.
"That will be better than getting lost again."

"Why, we're lost anyhow," declared Dorothy; "but I guess you're right
about going back to that signpost, Billina."

They returned along the path to the place where they had first found
it, and at once took "the other road" to Bunnybury.  This road was a
mere narrow strip, worn hard and smooth but not wide enough for
Dorothy's feet to tread.  Still, it was a guide, and the walking
through the forest was not at all difficult.

Before long they reached a high wall of solid white marble, and the
path came to an end at this wall.

At first Dorothy thought there was no opening at all in the marble, but
on looking closely she discovered a small square door about on a level
with her head, and underneath this closed door was a bell-push.  Near
the bell-push a sign was painted in neat letters upon the marble, and
the sign read:


NO ADMITTANCE

EXCEPT ON BUSINESS


This did not discourage Dorothy, however, and she rang the bell.

Pretty soon a bolt was cautiously withdrawn and the marble door swung
slowly open.  Then she saw it was not really a door, but a window, for
several brass bars were placed across it, being set fast in the marble
and so close together that the little girl's fingers might barely go
between them.  Back of the bars appeared the face of a white rabbit--a
very sober and sedate face--with an eye-glass held in his left eye and
attached to a cord in his button-hole.

"Well! what is it?" asked the rabbit, sharply.

"I'm Dorothy," said the girl, "and I'm lost, and--"

"State your business, please," interrupted the rabbit.

"My business," she replied, "is to find out where I am, and to--"

"No one is allowed in Bunnybury without an order or a letter of
introduction from either Ozma of Oz or Glinda the Good," announced the
rabbit; "so that settles the matter," and he started to close the
window.

"Wait a minute!" cried Dorothy.  "I've got a letter from Ozma."

"From the Ruler of Oz?" asked the rabbit, doubtingly.

"Of course.  Ozma's my best friend, you know; and I'm a Princess
myself," she announced, earnestly.

"Hum--ha!  Let me see your letter," returned the rabbit, as if he still
doubted her.

So she hunted in her pocket and found the letter Ozma had given her.
Then she handed it through the bars to the rabbit, who took it in his
paws and opened it.  He read it aloud in a pompous voice, as if to let
Dorothy and Billina see that he was educated and could read writing.
The letter was as follows:


"It will please me to have my subjects greet Princess Dorothy, the
bearer of this royal missive, with the same courtesy and consideration
they would extend to me."


"Ha--hum!  It is signed 'Ozma of Oz,'" continued the rabbit, "and is
sealed with the Great Seal of the Emerald City.  Well, well, well!  How
strange!  How remarkable!"

"What are you going to do about it?" inquired Dorothy, impatiently.

"We must obey the royal mandate," replied the rabbit.  "We are subjects
of Ozma of Oz, and we live in her country.  Also we are under the
protection of the great Sorceress Glinda the Good, who made us promise
to respect Ozma's commands."

"Then may I come in?" she asked.

"I'll open the door," said the rabbit.  He shut the window and
disappeared, but a moment afterward a big door in the wall opened and
admitted Dorothy to a small room, which seemed to be a part of the wall
and built into it.

Here stood the rabbit she had been talking with, and now that she could
see all of him, she gazed at the creature in surprise.  He was a good
sized white rabbit with pink eyes, much like all other white rabbits.
But the astonishing thing about him was the manner in which he was
dressed.  He wore a white satin jacket embroidered with gold, and
having diamond buttons.  His vest was rose-colored satin, with
tourmaline buttons.  His trousers were white, to correspond with the
jacket, and they were baggy at the knees--like those of a zouave--being
tied with knots of rose ribbons.  His shoes were of white plush with
diamond buckles, and his stockings were rose silk.

The richness and even magnificence of the rabbit's clothing made
Dorothy stare at the little creature wonderingly.  Toto and Billina had
followed her into the room and when he saw them the rabbit ran to a
table and sprang upon it nimbly.  Then he looked at the three through
his monocle and said:

"These companions, Princess, cannot enter Bunnybury with you."

"Why not?" asked Dorothy.

"In the first place they would frighten our people, who dislike dogs
above all things on earth; and, secondly, the letter of the Royal Ozma
does not mention them."

"But they're my friends," persisted Dorothy, "and go wherever I go."

"Not this time," said the rabbit, decidedly.  "You, yourself, Princess,
are a welcome visitor, since you come so highly recommended; but unless
you consent to leave the dog and the hen in this room I cannot permit
you to enter the town."

"Never mind us, Dorothy," said Billina.  "Go inside and see what the
place is like.  You can tell us about it afterward, and Toto and I will
rest comfortably here until you return."

This seemed the best thing to do, for Dorothy was curious to see how
the rabbit people lived and she was aware of the fact that her friends
might frighten the timid little creatures.  She had not forgotten how
Toto and Billina had misbehaved in Bunbury, and perhaps the rabbit was
wise to insist on their staying outside the town.

"Very well," she said, "I'll go in alone.  I s'pose you're the King of
this town, aren't you?"

"No," answered the rabbit, "I'm merely the Keeper of the Wicket, and a
person of little importance, although I try to do my duty.  I must now
inform you, Princess, that before you enter our town you must consent
to reduce."

"Reduce what?" asked Dorothy.

"Your size.  You must become the size of the rabbits, although you may
retain your own form."

"Wouldn't my clothes be too big for me?" she inquired.

"No; they will reduce when your body does."

"Can YOU make me smaller?" asked the girl.

"Easily," returned the rabbit.

"And will you make me big again, when I'm ready to go away?"

"I will," said he.

"All right, then; I'm willing," she announced.

The rabbit jumped from the table and ran--or rather hopped--to the
further wall, where he opened a door so tiny that even Toto could
scarcely have crawled through it.

"Follow me," he said.

Now, almost any other little girl would have declared that she could
not get through so small a door; but Dorothy had already encountered so
many fairy adventures that she believed nothing was impossible in the
Land of Oz.  So she quietly walked toward the door, and at every step
she grew smaller and smaller until, by the time the opening was
reached, she could pass through it with ease.  Indeed, as she stood
beside the rabbit, who sat upon his hind legs and used his paws as
hands, her head was just about as high as his own.

Then the Keeper of the Wicket passed through and she followed, after
which the door swung shut and locked itself with a sharp click.

Dorothy now found herself in a city so strange and beautiful that she
gave a gasp of surprise.  The high marble wall extended all around the
place and shut out all the rest of the world.  And here were marble
houses of curious forms, most of them resembling overturned kettles but
with delicate slender spires and minarets running far up into the sky.
The streets were paved with white marble and in front of each house was
a lawn of rich green clover.  Everything was as neat as wax, the green
and white contrasting prettily together.

But the rabbit people were, after all, the most amazing things Dorothy
saw.  The streets were full of them, and their costumes were so
splendid that the rich dress of the Keeper of the Wicket was
commonplace when compared with the others.  Silks and satins of
delicate hues seemed always used for material, and nearly every costume
sparkled with exquisite gems.

But the lady rabbits outshone the gentlemen rabbits in splendor, and
the cut of their gowns was really wonderful.  They wore bonnets, too,
with feathers and jewels in them, and some wheeled baby carriages in
which the girl could see wee bunnies.  Some were lying asleep while
others lay sucking their paws and looking around them with big pink
eyes.

As Dorothy was no bigger in size than the grown-up rabbits she had a
chance to observe them closely before they noticed her presence.  Then
they did not seem at all alarmed, although the little girl naturally
became the center of attraction and regarded her with great curiosity.

"Make way!" cried the Keeper of the Wicket, in a pompous voice; "make
way for Princess Dorothy, who comes from Ozma of Oz."

Hearing this announcement, the throng of rabbits gave place to them on
the walks, and as Dorothy passed along they all bowed their heads
respectfully.

Walking thus through several handsome streets they came to a square in
the center of the City.  In this square were some pretty trees and a
statue in bronze of Glinda the Good, while beyond it were the portals
of the Royal Palace--an extensive and imposing building of white marble
covered with a filigree of frosted gold.



20.  How Dorothy Lunched With a King

A line of rabbit soldiers was drawn up before the palace entrance, and
they wore green and gold uniforms with high shakos upon their heads and
held tiny spears in their hands.  The Captain had a sword and a white
plume in his shako.

"Salute!" called the Keeper of the Wicket.  "Salute Princess Dorothy,
who comes from Ozma of Oz!"

"Salute!" yelled the Captain, and all the soldiers promptly saluted.

They now entered the great hall of the palace, where they met a gaily
dressed attendant, from whom the Keeper of the Wicket inquired if the
King were at leisure.

"I think so," was the reply.  "I heard his Majesty blubbering and
wailing as usual only a few minutes ago.  If he doesn't stop acting
like a cry-baby I'm going to resign my position here and go to work."

"What's the matter with your King?" asked Dorothy, surprised to hear
the rabbit attendant speak so disrespectfully of his monarch.

"Oh, he doesn't want to be King, that's all; and he simply HAS to," was
the reply.

"Come!" said the Keeper of the Wicket, sternly; "lead us to his
Majesty; and do not air our troubles before strangers, I beg of you."

"Why, if this girl is going to see the King, he'll air his own
troubles," returned the attendant.

"That is his royal privilege," declared the Keeper.

So the attendant led them into a room all draped with cloth-of-gold and
furnished with satin-covered gold furniture.  There was a throne in
this room, set on a dais and having a big, cushioned seat, and on this
seat reclined the Rabbit King.  He was lying on his back, with his paws
in the air, and whining very like a puppy-dog.

"Your Majesty! your Majesty!  Get up.  Here's a visitor," called out
the attendant.

The King rolled over and looked at Dorothy with one watery pink eye.
Then he sat up and wiped his eyes carefully with a silk handkerchief
and put on his jeweled crown, which had fallen off.

"Excuse my grief, fair stranger," he said, in a sad voice.  "You behold
in me the most miserable monarch in all the world.  What time is it,
Blinkem?"

"One o'clock, your Majesty," replied the attendant to whom the question
was addressed.

"Serve luncheon at once!" commanded the King.  "Luncheon for
two--that's for my visitor and me--and see that the human has some sort
of food she's accustomed to."

"Yes, your Majesty," answered the attendant, and went away.

"Tie my shoe, Bristle," said the King to the Keeper of the Wicket.  "Ah
me! how unhappy I am!"

"What seems to be worrying your Majesty?" asked Dorothy.

"Why, it's this king business, of course," he returned, while the
Keeper tied his shoe.  "I didn't want to be King of Bunnybury at all,
and the rabbits all knew it.  So they elected me--to save themselves
from such a dreadful fate, I suppose--and here I am, shut up in a
palace, when I might be free and happy."

"Seems to me," said Dorothy, "it's a great thing to be a King."

"Were you ever a King?" inquired the monarch.

"No," she answered, laughing.

"Then you know nothing about it," he said.  "I haven't inquired who you
are, but it doesn't matter.  While we're at luncheon, I'll tell you all
my troubles.  They're a great deal more interesting than anything you
can say about yourself."

"Perhaps they are, to you," replied Dorothy.

"Luncheon is served!" cried Blinkem, throwing open the door, and in
came a dozen rabbits in livery, all bearing trays which they placed
upon the table, where they arranged the dishes in an orderly manner.

"Now clear out--all of you!" exclaimed the King.  "Bristle, you may
wait outside, in case I want you."

When they had gone and the King was alone with Dorothy he came down
from his throne, tossed his crown into a corner and kicked his ermine
robe under the table.

"Sit down," he said, "and try to be happy.  It's useless for me to try,
because I'm always wretched and miserable.  But I'm hungry, and I hope
you are."

"I am," said Dorothy.  "I've only eaten a wheelbarrow and a piano
to-day--oh, yes! and a slice of bread and butter that used to be a
door-mat."

"That sounds like a square meal," remarked the King, seating himself
opposite her; "but perhaps it wasn't a square piano.  Eh?"

Dorothy laughed.

"You don't seem so very unhappy now," she said.

"But I am," protested the King, fresh tears gathering in his eyes.
"Even my jokes are miserable.  I'm wretched, woeful, afflicted,
distressed and dismal as an individual can be.  Are you not sorry for
me?"

"No," answered Dorothy, honestly, "I can't say I am.  Seems to me that
for a rabbit you're right in clover.  This is the prettiest little city
I ever saw."

"Oh, the city is good enough," he admitted.  "Glinda, the Good
Sorceress, made it for us because she was fond of rabbits.  I don't
mind the City so much, although I wouldn't live here if I had my
choice.  It is being King that has absolutely ruined my happiness."

"Why wouldn't you live here by choice?" she asked.

"Because it is all unnatural, my dear.  Rabbits are out of place in
such luxury.  When I was young I lived in a burrow in the forest.  I
was surrounded by enemies and often had to run for my life.  It was
hard getting enough to eat, at times, and when I found a bunch of
clover I had to listen and look for danger while I ate it.  Wolves
prowled around the hole in which I lived and sometimes I didn't dare
stir out for days at a time.  Oh, how happy and contented I was then!
I was a real rabbit, as nature made me--wild and free!--and I even
enjoyed listening to the startled throbbing of my own heart!"

"I've often thought," said Dorothy, who was busily eating, "that it
would be fun to be a rabbit."

"It IS fun--when you're the genuine article," agreed his Majesty.  "But
look at me now!  I live in a marble palace instead of a hole in the
ground.  I have all I want to eat, without the joy of hunting for it.
Every day I must dress in fine clothes and wear that horrible crown
till it makes my head ache.  Rabbits come to me with all sorts of
troubles, when my own troubles are the only ones I care about.  When I
walk out I can't hop and run; I must strut on my rear legs and wear an
ermine robe!  And the soldiers salute me and the band plays and the
other rabbits laugh and clap their paws and cry out: 'Hail to the
King!'  Now let me ask you, as a friend and a young lady of good
judgment: isn't all this pomp and foolishness enough to make a decent
rabbit miserable?"

"Once," said Dorothy, reflectively, "men were wild and unclothed and
lived in caves and hunted for food as wild beasts do.  But they got
civ'lized, in time, and now they'd hate to go back to the old days."

"That is an entirely different case," replied the King.  "None of you
Humans were civilized in one lifetime.  It came to you by degrees.  But
I have known the forest and the free life, and that is why I resent
being civilized all at once, against my will, and being made a King
with a crown and an ermine robe.  Pah!"

"If you don't like it, why don't you resign?" she asked.

"Impossible!" wailed the Rabbit, wiping his eyes again with his
handkerchief.  "There's a beastly law in this town that forbids it.
When one is elected a King, there's no getting out of it."

"Who made the laws?" inquired Dorothy.

"The same Sorceress who made the town--Glinda the Good.  She built the
wall, and fixed up the City, and gave us several valuable enchantments,
and made the laws.  Then she invited all the pink-eyed white rabbits of
the forest to come here, after which she left us to our fate."

"What made you 'cept the invitation, and come here?" asked the child.

"I didn't know how dreadful city life was, and I'd no idea I would be
elected King," said he, sobbing bitterly.  "And--and--now I'm It--with
a capital I--and can't escape!"

"I know Glinda," remarked Dorothy, eating for dessert a dish of
charlotte russe, "and when I see her again, I'll ask her to put another
King in your place."

"Will you?  Will you, indeed?" asked the King, joyfully.

"I will if you want me to," she replied.

"Hurroo--huray!" shouted the King; and then he jumped up from the table
and danced wildly about the room, waving his napkin like a flag and
laughing with glee.

After a time he managed to control his delight and returned to the
table.

"When are you likely to see Glinda?" he inquired.

"Oh, p'raps in a few days," said Dorothy.

"And you won't forget to ask her?"

"Of course not."

"Princess," said the Rabbit King, earnestly, "you have relieved me of a
great unhappiness, and I am very grateful.  Therefore I propose to
entertain you, since you are my guest and I am the King, as a slight
mark of my appreciation.  Come with me to my reception hall."

He then summoned Bristle and said to him: "Assemble all the nobility in
the great reception hall, and also tell Blinkem that I want him
immediately."

The Keeper of the Wicket bowed and hurried away, and his Majesty turned
to Dorothy and continued: "We'll have time for a walk in the gardens
before the people get here."

The gardens were back of the palace and were filled with beautiful
flowers and fragrant shrubs, with many shade and fruit trees and
marble-paved walks running in every direction.  As they entered this
place Blinkem came running to the King, who gave him several orders in
a low voice.  Then his Majesty rejoined Dorothy and led her through the
gardens, which she admired very much.

"What lovely clothes your Majesty wears!" she said, glancing at the
rich blue satin costume, embroidered, with pearls in which the King was
dressed.

"Yes," he returned, with an air of pride, "this is one of my favorite
suits; but I have a good many that are even more elaborate.  We have
excellent tailors in Bunnybury, and Glinda supplies all the material.
By the way, you might ask the Sorceress, when you see her, to permit me
to keep my wardrobe."

"But if you go back to the forest you will not need clothes," she said.

"N--o!" he faltered; "that may be so.  But I've dressed up so long that
I'm used to it, and I don't imagine I'd care to run around naked again.
So perhaps the Good Glinda will let me keep the costumes."

"I'll ask her," agreed Dorothy.

Then they left the gardens and went into a fine, big reception hall,
where rich rugs were spread upon the tiled floors and the furniture was
exquisitely carved and studded with jewels.  The King's chair was an
especially pretty piece of furniture, being in the shape of a silver
lily with one leaf bent over to form the seat.  The silver was
everywhere thickly encrusted with diamonds and the seat was upholstered
in white satin.

"Oh, what a splendid chair!" cried Dorothy, clasping her hands
admiringly.

"Isn't it?" answered the King, proudly.  "It is my favorite seat, and I
think it especially becoming to my complexion.  While I think of it, I
wish you'd ask Glinda to let me keep this lily chair when I go away."

"It wouldn't look very well in a hole in the ground, would it?" she
suggested.

"Maybe not; but I'm used to sitting in it and I'd like to take it with
me," he answered.  "But here come the ladies and gentlemen of the
court; so please sit beside me and be presented."



21.  How the King Changed His Mind

Just then a rabbit band of nearly fifty pieces marched in, playing upon
golden instruments and dressed in neat uniforms.  Following the band
came the nobility of Bunnybury, all richly dressed and hopping along on
their rear legs.  Both the ladies and the gentlemen wore white gloves
upon their paws, with their rings on the outside of the gloves, as this
seemed to be the fashion here.  Some of the lady rabbits carried
lorgnettes, while many of the gentlemen rabbits wore monocles in their
left eyes.

The courtiers and their ladies paraded past the King, who introduced
Princess Dorothy to each couple in a very graceful manner.  Then the
company seated themselves in chairs and on sofas and looked expectantly
at their monarch.

"It is our royal duty, as well as our royal pleasure," he said, "to
provide fitting entertainment for our distinguished guest.  We will now
present the Royal Band of Whiskered Friskers."

As he spoke the musicians, who had arranged themselves in a corner,
struck up a dance melody while into the room pranced the Whiskered
Friskers.  They were eight pretty rabbits dressed only in gauzy purple
skirts fastened around their waists with diamond bands.  Their whiskers
were colored a rich purple, but otherwise they were pure white.

After bowing before the King and Dorothy the Friskers began their
pranks, and these were so comical that Dorothy laughed with real
enjoyment.  They not only danced together, whirling and gyrating around
the room, but they leaped over one another, stood upon their heads and
hopped and skipped here and there so nimbly that it was hard work to
keep track of them.  Finally, they all made double somersaults and
turned handsprings out of the room.

The nobility enthusiastically applauded, and Dorothy applauded with
them.

"They're fine!" she said to the King.

"Yes, the Whiskered Friskers are really very clever," he replied.  "I
shall hate to part with them when I go away, for they have often amused
me when I was very miserable.  I wonder if you would ask Glinda--"

"No, it wouldn't do at all," declared Dorothy, positively.  "There
wouldn't be room in your hole in the ground for so many rabbits,
'spec'ly when you get the lily chair and your clothes there.  Don't
think of such a thing, your Majesty."

The King sighed.  Then he stood up and announced to the company:

"We will now hold a military drill by my picked Bodyguard of Royal
Pikemen."

Now the band played a march and a company of rabbit soldiers came in.
They wore green and gold uniforms and marched very stiffly but in
perfect time.  Their spears, or pikes, had slender shafts of polished
silver with golden heads, and during the drill they handled these
weapons with wonderful dexterity.

"I should think you'd feel pretty safe with such a fine Bodyguard,"
remarked Dorothy.

"I do," said the King.  "They protect me from every harm.  I suppose
Glinda wouldn't--"

"No," interrupted the girl; "I'm sure she wouldn't.  It's the King's
own Bodyguard, and when you are no longer King you can't have 'em."

The King did not reply, but he looked rather sorrowful for a time.

When the soldiers had marched out he said to the company:

"The Royal Jugglers will now appear."

Dorothy had seen many jugglers in her lifetime, but never any so
interesting as these.  There were six of them, dressed in black satin
embroidered with queer symbols in silver--a costume which contrasted
strongly with their snow-white fur.

First, they pushed in a big red ball and three of the rabbit jugglers
stood upon its top and made it roll.  Then two of them caught up a
third and tossed him into the air, all vanishing, until only the two
were left.  Then one of these tossed the other upward and remained
alone of all his fellows.  This last juggler now touched the red ball,
which fell apart, being hollow, and the five rabbits who had
disappeared in the air scrambled out of the hollow ball.

Next they all clung together and rolled swiftly upon the floor.  When
they came to a stop only one fat rabbit juggler was seen, the others
seeming to be inside him.  This one leaped lightly into the air and
when he came down he exploded and separated into the original six.
Then four of them rolled themselves into round balls and the other two
tossed them around and played ball with them.

These were but a few of the tricks the rabbit jugglers performed, and
they were so skillful that all the nobility and even the King applauded
as loudly as did Dorothy.

"I suppose there are no rabbit jugglers in all the world to compare
with these," remarked the King.  "And since I may not have the Whiskers
Friskers or my Bodyguard, you might ask Glinda to let me take away just
two or three of these jugglers.  Will you?"

"I'll ask her," replied Dorothy, doubtfully.

"Thank you," said the King; "thank you very much.  And now you shall
listen to the Winsome Waggish Warblers, who have often cheered me in my
moments of anguish."

The Winsome Waggish Warblers proved to be a quartette of rabbit
singers, two gentlemen and two lady rabbits.  The gentlemen Warblers
wore full-dress swallow-tailed suits of white satin, with pearls for
buttons, while the lady Warblers were gowned in white satin dresses
with long trails.

The first song they sang began in this way:


  "When a rabbit gets a habit
    Of living in a city
  And wearing clothes and furbelows
    And jewels rare and pretty,
  He scorns the Bun who has to run
    And burrow in the ground
  And pities those whose watchful foes
    Are man and gun and hound."


Dorothy looked at the King when she heard this song and noticed that he
seemed disturbed and ill at ease.

"I don't like that song," he said to the Warblers.  "Give us something
jolly and rollicking."

So they sang to a joyous, tinkling melody as follows:


      "Bunnies gay
      Delight to play
  In their fairy town secure;
      Ev'ry frisker
      Flirts his whisker
  At a pink-eyed girl demure.
      Ev'ry maid
      In silk arrayed
  At her partner shyly glances,
      Paws are grasped,
      Waists are clasped
  As they whirl in giddy dances.
      Then together
      Through the heather
  'Neath the moonlight soft they stroll;
      Each is very
      Blithe and merry,
  Gamboling with laughter droll.
      Life is fun
      To ev'ry one
  Guarded by our magic charm
      For to dangers
      We are strangers,
  Safe from any thought of harm."


"You see," said Dorothy to the King, when the song ended, "the rabbits
all seem to like Bunnybury except you.  And I guess you're the only one
that ever has cried or was unhappy and wanted to get back to your muddy
hole in the ground."

His Majesty seemed thoughtful, and while the servants passed around
glasses of nectar and plates of frosted cakes their King was silent and
a bit nervous.

When the refreshments had been enjoyed by all and the servants had
retired Dorothy said:

"I must go now, for it's getting late and I'm lost.  I've got to find
the Wizard and Aunt Em and Uncle Henry and all the rest sometime before
night comes, if I poss'bly can."

"Won't you stay with us?" asked the King.  "You will be very welcome."

"No, thank you," she replied.  "I must get back to my friends.  And I
want to see Glinda just as soon as I can, you know."

So the King dismissed his court and said he would himself walk with
Dorothy to the gate.  He did not weep nor groan any more, but his long
face was quite solemn and his big ears hung dejectedly on each side of
it.  He still wore his crown and his ermine and walked with a handsome
gold-headed cane.

When they arrived at the room in the wall the little girl found Toto
and Billina waiting for her very patiently.  They had been liberally
fed by some of the attendants and were in no hurry to leave such
comfortable quarters.

The Keeper of the Wicket was by this time back in his old place, but he
kept a safe distance from Toto.  Dorothy bade good bye to the King as
they stood just inside the wall.

"You've been good to me," she said, "and I thank you ever so much.  As
soon as poss'ble I'll see Glinda and ask her to put another King in
your place and send you back into the wild forest.  And I'll ask her to
let you keep some of your clothes and the lily chair and one or two
jugglers to amuse you.  I'm sure she will do it, 'cause she's so kind
she doesn't like any one to be unhappy."

"Ahem!" said the King, looking rather downcast.  "I don't like to
trouble you with my misery; so you needn't see Glinda."

"Oh, yes I will," she replied.  "It won't be any trouble at all."

"But, my dear," continued the King, in an embarrassed way, "I've been
thinking the subject over carefully, and I find there are a lot of
pleasant things here in Bunnybury that I would miss if I went away.  So
perhaps I'd better stay."

Dorothy laughed.  Then she looked grave.

"It won't do for you to be a King and a cry-baby at the same time," she
said.  "You've been making all the other rabbits unhappy and
discontented with your howls about being so miserable.  So I guess it's
better to have another King."

"Oh, no indeed!" exclaimed the King, earnestly.  "If you won't say
anything to Glinda I'll promise to be merry and gay all the time, and
never cry or wail again."

"Honor bright?" she asked.

"On the royal word of a King I promise it!" he answered.

"All right," said Dorothy.  "You'd be a reg'lar lunatic to want to
leave Bunnybury for a wild life in the forest, and I'm sure any rabbit
outside the city would be glad to take your place."

"Forget it, my dear; forget all my foolishness," pleaded the King,
earnestly.  "Hereafter I'll try to enjoy myself and do my duty by my
subjects."

So then she left him and entered through the little door into the room
in the wall, where she grew gradually bigger and bigger until she had
resumed her natural size.

The Keeper of the Wicket let them out into the forest and told Dorothy
that she had been of great service to Bunnybury because she had brought
their dismal King to a realization of the pleasure of ruling so
beautiful a city.

"I shall start a petition to have your statue erected beside Glinda's
in the public square," said the Keeper.  "I hope you will come again,
some day, and see it."

"Perhaps I shall," she replied.

Then, followed by Toto and Billina, she walked away from the high
marble wall and started back along the narrow path toward the sign-post.



22.  How the Wizard Found Dorothy

When they came to the signpost, there, to their joy, were the tents of
the Wizard pitched beside the path and the kettle bubbling merrily over
the fire.  The Shaggy Man and Omby Amby were gathering firewood while
Uncle Henry and Aunt Em sat in their camp chairs talking with the
Wizard.

They all ran forward to greet Dorothy, as she approached, and Aunt Em
exclaimed: "Goodness gracious, child!  Where have you been?"

"You've played hookey the whole day," added the Shaggy Man,
reproachfully.

"Well, you see, I've been lost," explained the little girl, "and I've
tried awful hard to find the way back to you, but just couldn't do it."

"Did you wander in the forest all day?" asked Uncle Henry.

"You must be a'most starved!" said Aunt Em.

"No," said Dorothy, "I'm not hungry.  I had a wheelbarrow and a piano
for breakfast, and lunched with a King."

"Ah!" exclaimed the Wizard, nodding with a bright smile.  "So you've
been having adventures again."

"She's stark crazy!" cried Aunt Em.  "Whoever heard of eating a
wheelbarrow?"

"It wasn't very big," said Dorothy; "and it had a zuzu wheel."

"And I ate the crumbs," said Billina, soberly.

"Sit down and tell us about it," begged the Wizard.  "We've hunted for
you all day, and at last I noticed your footsteps in this path--and the
tracks of Billina.  We found the path by accident, and seeing it only
led to two places I decided you were at either one or the other of
those places.  So we made camp and waited for you to return.  And now,
Dorothy, tell us where you have been--to Bunbury or to Bunnybury?"

"Why, I've been to both," she replied; "but first I went to Utensia,
which isn't on any path at all."

She then sat down and related the day's adventures, and you may be sure
Aunt Em and Uncle Henry were much astonished at the story.

"But after seeing the Cuttenclips and the Fuddles," remarked her uncle,
"we ought not to wonder at anything in this strange country."

"Seems like the only common and ordinary folks here are ourselves,"
rejoined Aunt Em, diffidently.

"Now that we're together again, and one reunited party," observed the
Shaggy Man, "what are we to do next?"

"Have some supper and a night's rest," answered the Wizard promptly,
"and then proceed upon our journey."

"Where to?" asked the Captain General.

"We haven't visited the Rigmaroles or the Flutterbudgets yet," said
Dorothy.  "I'd like to see them--wouldn't you?"

"They don't sound very interesting," objected Aunt Em.  "But perhaps
they are."

"And then," continued the little Wizard, "we will call upon the Tin
Woodman and Jack Pumpkinhead and our old friend the Scarecrow, on our
way home."

"That will be nice!" cried Dorothy, eagerly.

"Can't say THEY sound very interesting, either," remarked Aunt Em.

"Why, they're the best friends I have!" asserted the little girl, "and
you're sure to like them, Aunt Em, 'cause EVER'body likes them."

By this time twilight was approaching, so they ate the fine supper
which the Wizard magically produced from the kettle and then went to
bed in the cozy tents.

They were all up bright and early next morning, but Dorothy didn't
venture to wander from the camp again for fear of more accidents.

"Do you know where there's a road?" she asked the little man.

"No, my dear," replied the Wizard; "but I'll find one."

After breakfast he waved his hand toward the tents and they became
handkerchiefs again, which were at once returned to the pockets of
their owners.  Then they all climbed into the red wagon and the
Sawhorse inquired:

"Which way?"

"Never mind which way," replied the Wizard.  "Just go as you please and
you're sure to be right.  I've enchanted the wheels of the wagon, and
they will roll in the right direction, never fear."

As the Sawhorse started away through the trees Dorothy said:

"If we had one of those new-fashioned airships we could float away over
the top of the forest, and look down and find just the places we want."

"Airship?  Pah!" retorted the little man, scornfully.  "I hate those
things, Dorothy, although they are nothing new to either you or me.  I
was a balloonist for many years, and once my balloon carried me to the
Land of Oz, and once to the Vegetable Kingdom.  And once Ozma had a
Gump that flew all over this kingdom and had sense enough to go where
it was told to--which airships won't do.  The house which the cyclone
brought to Oz all the way from Kansas, with you and Toto in it--was a
real airship at the time; so you see we've got plenty of experience
flying with the birds."

"Airships are not so bad, after all," declared Dorothy.  "Some day
they'll fly all over the world, and perhaps bring people even to the
Land of Oz."

"I must speak to Ozma about that," said the Wizard, with a slight
frown.  "It wouldn't do at all, you know, for the Emerald City to
become a way-station on an airship line."

"No," said Dorothy, "I don't s'pose it would.  But what can we do to
prevent it?"

"I'm working out a magic recipe to fuddle men's brains, so they'll
never make an airship that will go where they want it to go," the
Wizard confided to her.  "That won't keep the things from flying, now
and then, but it'll keep them from flying to the Land of Oz."

Just then the Sawhorse drew the wagon out of the forest and a beautiful
landscape lay spread before the travelers' eyes.  Moreover, right
before them was a good road that wound away through the hills and
valleys.

"Now," said the Wizard, with evident delight, "we are on the right
track again, and there is nothing more to worry about."

"It's a foolish thing to take chances in a strange country," observed
the Shaggy Man.  "Had we kept to the roads we never would have been
lost.  Roads always lead to some place, else they wouldn't be roads."

"This road," added the Wizard, "leads to Rigmarole Town.  I'm sure of
that because I enchanted the wagon wheels."

Sure enough, after riding along the road for an hour or two they
entered a pretty valley where a village was nestled among the hills.
The houses were Munchkin shaped, for they were all domes, with windows
wider than they were high, and pretty balconies over the front doors.

Aunt Em was greatly relieved to find this town "neither paper nor
patch-work," and the only surprising thing about it was that it was so
far distant from all other towns.

As the Sawhorse drew the wagon into the main street the travelers
noticed that the place was filled with people, standing in groups and
seeming to be engaged in earnest conversation.  So occupied with
themselves were the inhabitants that they scarcely noticed the
strangers at all.  So the Wizard stopped a boy and asked:

"Is this Rigmarole Town?"

"Sir," replied the boy, "if you have traveled very much you will have
noticed that every town differs from every other town in one way or
another and so by observing the methods of the people and the way they
live as well as the style of their dwelling places it ought not to be a
difficult thing to make up your mind without the trouble of asking
questions whether the town bears the appearance of the one you intended
to visit or whether perhaps having taken a different road from the one
you should have taken you have made an error in your way and arrived at
some point where--"

"Land sakes!" cried Aunt Em, impatiently; "what's all this rigmarole
about?"

"That's it!" said the Wizard, laughing merrily.  "It's a rigmarole
because the boy is a Rigmarole and we've come to Rigmarole Town."

"Do they all talk like that?" asked Dorothy, wonderingly.

"He might have said 'yes' or 'no' and settled the question," observed
Uncle Henry.

"Not here," said Omby Amby.  "I don't believe the Rigmaroles know what
'yes' or 'no' means."

While the boy had been talking several other people had approached the
wagon and listened intently to his speech.  Then they began talking to
one another in long, deliberate speeches, where many words were used
but little was said.  But when the strangers criticized them so frankly
one of the women, who had no one else to talk to, began an address to
them, saying:

"It is the easiest thing in the world for a person to say 'yes' or 'no'
when a question that is asked for the purpose of gaining information or
satisfying the curiosity of the one who has given expression to the
inquiry has attracted the attention of an individual who may be
competent either from personal experience or the experience of others
to answer it with more or less correctness or at least an attempt to
satisfy the desire for information on the part of the one who has made
the inquiry by--"

"Dear me!" exclaimed Dorothy, interrupting the speech.  "I've lost all
track of what you are saying."

"Don't let her begin over again, for goodness sake!" cried Aunt Em.

But the woman did not begin again.  She did not even stop talking, but
went right on as she had begun, the words flowing from her mouth in a
stream.

"I'm quite sure that if we waited long enough and listened carefully,
some of these people might be able to tell us something, in time," said
the Wizard.

"Let's don't wait," returned Dorothy.  "I've heard of the Rigmaroles,
and wondered what they were like; but now I know, and I'm ready to move
on."

"So am I," declared Uncle Henry; "we're wasting time here."

"Why, we're all ready to go," said the Shaggy Man, putting his fingers
to his ears to shut out the monotonous babble of those around the wagon.

So the Wizard spoke to the Sawhorse, who trotted nimbly through the
village and soon gained the open country on the other side of it.
Dorothy looked back, as they rode away, and noticed that the woman had
not yet finished her speech but was talking as glibly as ever, although
no one was near to hear her.

"If those people wrote books," Omby Amby remarked with a smile, "it
would take a whole library to say the cow jumped over the moon."

"Perhaps some of 'em do write books," asserted the little Wizard.
"I've read a few rigmaroles that might have come from this very town."

"Some of the college lecturers and ministers are certainly related to
these people," observed the Shaggy Man; "and it seems to me the Land of
Oz is a little ahead of the United States in some of its laws.  For
here, if one can't talk clearly, and straight to the point, they send
him to Rigmarole Town; while Uncle Sam lets him roam around wild and
free, to torture innocent people."

Dorothy was thoughtful.  The Rigmaroles had made a strong impression
upon her.  She decided that whenever she spoke, after this, she would
use only enough words to express what she wanted to say.



23.  How They Encountered the Flutterbudgets

They were soon among the pretty hills and valleys again, and the
Sawhorse sped up hill and down at a fast and easy pace, the roads being
hard and smooth.  Mile after mile was speedily covered, and before the
ride had grown at all tiresome they sighted another village.  The place
seemed even larger than Rigmarole Town, but was not so attractive in
appearance.

"This must be Flutterbudget Center," declared the Wizard.  "You see,
it's no trouble at all to find places if you keep to the right road."

"What are the Flutterbudgets like?" inquired Dorothy.

"I do not know, my dear.  But Ozma has given them a town all their own,
and I've heard that whenever one of the people becomes a Flutterbudget
he is sent to this place to live."

"That is true," Omby Amby added; "Flutterbudget Center and Rigmarole
Town are called 'the Defensive Settlements of Oz.'"

The village they now approached was not built in a valley, but on top
of a hill, and the road they followed wound around the hill, like a
corkscrew, ascending the hill easily until it came to the town.

"Look out!" screamed a voice.  "Look out, or you'll run over my child!"

They gazed around and saw a woman standing upon the sidewalk nervously
wringing her hands as she gazed at them appealingly.

"Where is your child?" asked the Sawhorse.

"In the house," said the woman, bursting into tears; "but if it should
happen to be in the road, and you ran over it, those great wheels would
crush my darling to jelly.  Oh dear! oh dear!  Think of my darling
child being crushed into jelly by those great wheels!"

"Gid-dap!" said the Wizard sharply, and the Sawhorse started on.

They had not gone far before a man ran out of a house shouting wildly,
"Help!  Help!"

The Sawhorse stopped short and the Wizard and Uncle Henry and the
Shaggy Man and Omby Amby jumped out of the wagon and ran to the poor
man's assistance.  Dorothy followed them as quickly as she could.

"What's the matter?" asked the Wizard.

"Help! help!" screamed the man; "my wife has cut her finger off and
she's bleeding to death!"

Then he turned and rushed back to the house, and all the party went
with him.  They found a woman in the front dooryard moaning and
groaning as if in great pain.

"Be brave, madam!" said the Wizard, consolingly.  "You won't die just
because you have cut off a finger, you may be sure."

"But I haven't cut off a finger!" she sobbed.

"Then what HAS happened?" asked Dorothy.

"I--I pricked my finger with a needle while I was sewing, and--and the
blood came!" she replied.  "And now I'll have blood-poisoning, and the
doctors will cut off my finger, and that will give me a fever and I
shall die!"

"Pshaw!" said Dorothy; "I've pricked my finger many a time, and nothing
happened."

"Really?" asked the woman, brightening and wiping her eyes upon her
apron.

"Why, it's nothing at all," declared the girl.  "You're more scared
than hurt."

"Ah, that's because she's a Flutterbudget," said the Wizard, nodding
wisely.  "I think I know now what these people are like."

"So do I," announced Dorothy.

"Oh, boo-hoo-hoo!" sobbed the woman, giving way to a fresh burst of
grief.

"What's wrong now?" asked the Shaggy Man.

"Oh, suppose I had pricked my foot!" she wailed.  "Then the doctors
would have cut my foot off, and I'd be lamed for life!"

"Surely, ma'am," replied the Wizard, "and if you'd pricked your nose
they might cut your head off.  But you see you didn't."

"But I might have!" she exclaimed, and began to cry again.  So they
left her and drove away in their wagon.  And her husband came out and
began calling "Help!" as he had before; but no one seemed to pay any
attention to him.

As the travelers turned into another street they found a man walking
excitedly up and down the pavement.  He appeared to be in a very
nervous condition and the Wizard stopped him to ask:

"Is anything wrong, sir?"

"Everything is wrong," answered the man, dismally.  "I can't sleep."

"Why not?" inquired Omby Amby.

"If I go to sleep I'll have to shut my eyes," he explained; "and if I
shut my eyes they may grow together, and then I'd be blind for life!"

"Did you ever hear of any one's eyes growing together?" asked Dorothy.

"No," said the man, "I never did.  But it would be a dreadful thing,
wouldn't it?  And the thought of it makes me so nervous I'm afraid to
go to sleep."

"There's no help for this case," declared the Wizard; and they went on.

At the next street corner a woman rushed up to them crying:

"Save my baby!  Oh, good, kind people, save my baby!"

"Is it in danger?" asked Dorothy, noticing that the child was clasped
in her arms and seemed sleeping peacefully.

"Yes, indeed," said the woman, nervously.  "If I should go into the
house and throw my child out of the window, it would roll way down to
the bottom of the hill; and then if there were a lot of tigers and
bears down there, they would tear my darling babe to pieces and eat it
up!"

"Are there any tigers and bears in this neighborhood?" the Wizard asked.

"I've never heard of any," admitted the woman, "but if there were--"

"Have you any idea of throwing your baby out of the window?" questioned
the little man.

"None at all," she said; "but if--"

"All your troubles are due to those 'ifs'," declared the Wizard.  "If
you were not a Flutterbudget you wouldn't worry."

"There's another 'if'," replied the woman.  "Are you a Flutterbudget,
too?"

"I will be, if I stay here long," exclaimed the Wizard, nervously.

"Another 'if'!" cried the woman.

But the Wizard did not stop to argue with her.  He made the Sawhorse
canter all the way down the hill, and only breathed easily when they
were miles away from the village.

After they had ridden in silence for a while Dorothy turned to the
little man and asked:

"Do 'ifs' really make Flutterbudgets?"

"I think the 'ifs' help," he answered seriously.  "Foolish fears, and
worries over nothing, with a mixture of nerves and ifs, will soon make
a Flutterbudget of any one."

Then there was another long silence, for all the travelers were
thinking over this statement, and nearly all decided it must be true.

The country they were now passing through was everywhere tinted purple,
the prevailing color of the Gillikin Country; but as the Sawhorse
ascended a hill they found that upon the other side everything was of a
rich yellow hue.

"Aha!" cried the Captain General; "here is the Country of the Winkies.
We are just crossing the boundary line."

"Then we may be able to lunch with the Tin Woodman," announced the
Wizard, joyfully.

"Must we lunch on tin?" asked Aunt Em.

"Oh, no;" replied Dorothy.  "Nick Chopper knows how to feed meat
people, and he will give us plenty of good things to eat, never fear.
I've been to his castle before."

"Is Nick Chopper the Tin Woodman's name?" asked Uncle Henry.

"Yes; that's one of his names," answered the little girl; "and another
of his names is 'Emp'ror of the Winkies.'  He's the King of this
country, you know, but Ozma rules over all the countries of Oz."

"Does the Tin Woodman keep any Flutterbudgets or Rigmaroles at his
castle?" inquired Aunt Em, uneasily.

"No indeed," said Dorothy, positively.  "He lives in a new tin castle,
all full of lovely things."

"I should think it would rust," said Uncle Henry.

"He has thousands of Winkies to keep it polished for him," explained
the Wizard.  "His people love to do anything in their power for their
beloved Emperor, so there isn't a particle of rust on all the big
castle."

"I suppose they polish their Emperor, too," said Aunt Em.

"Why, some time ago he had himself nickel-plated," the Wizard answered;
"so he only needs rubbing up once in a while.  He's the brightest man
in all the world, is dear Nick Chopper; and the kindest-hearted."

"I helped find him," said Dorothy, reflectively.  "Once the Scarecrow
and I found the Tin Woodman in the woods, and he was just rusted still,
that time, an' no mistake.  But we oiled his joints an' got 'em good
and slippery, and after that he went with us to visit the Wizard at the
Em'rald City."

"Was that the time the Wizard scared you?" asked Aunt Em.

"He didn't treat us well, at first," acknowledged Dorothy; "for he made
us go away and destroy the Wicked Witch.  But after we found out he was
only a humbug wizard we were not afraid of him."

The Wizard sighed and looked a little ashamed.

"When we try to deceive people we always make mistakes," he said.  "But
I'm getting to be a real wizard now, and Glinda the Good's magic, that
I am trying to practice, can never harm any one."

"You were always a good man," declared Dorothy, "even when you were a
bad wizard."

"He's a good wizard now," asserted Aunt Em, looking at the little man
admiringly.  "The way he made those tents grow out of handkerchiefs was
just wonderful!  And didn't he enchant the wagon wheels so they'd find
the road?"

"All the people of Oz," said the Captain General, "are very proud of
their Wizard.  He once made some soap-bubbles that astonished the
world."

The Wizard blushed at this praise, yet it pleased him.  He no longer
looked sad, but seemed to have recovered his usual good humor.

The country through which they now rode was thickly dotted with
farmhouses, and yellow grain waved in all the fields.  Many of the
Winkies could be seen working on their farms and the wild and unsettled
parts of Oz were by this time left far behind.

These Winkies appeared to be happy, light-hearted folk, and all removed
their caps and bowed low when the red wagon with its load of travelers
passed by.

It was not long before they saw something glittering in the sunshine
far ahead.

"See!" cried Dorothy; "that's the Tin Castle, Aunt Em!"

And the Sawhorse, knowing his passengers were eager to arrive, broke
into a swift trot that soon brought them to their destination.



24.  How the Tin Woodman Told the Sad News

The Tin Woodman received Princess Dorothy's party with much grace and
cordiality, yet the little girl decided that something must be worrying
with her old friend, because he was not so merry as usual.

But at first she said nothing about this, for Uncle Henry and Aunt Em
were fairly bubbling over with admiration for the beautiful tin castle
and its polished tin owner.  So her suspicion that something unpleasant
had happened was for a time forgotten.

"Where is the Scarecrow?" she asked, when they had all been ushered
into the big tin drawing-room of the castle, the Sawhorse being led
around to the tin stable in the rear.

"Why, our old friend has just moved into his new mansion," explained
the Tin Woodman.  "It has been a long time in building, although my
Winkies and many other people from all parts of the country have been
busily working upon it.  At last, however, it is completed, and the
Scarecrow took possession of his new home just two days ago."

"I hadn't heard that he wanted a home of his own," said Dorothy.  "Why
doesn't he live with Ozma in the Emerald City?  He used to, you know;
and I thought he was happy there."

"It seems," said the Tin Woodman, "that our dear Scarecrow cannot be
contented with city life, however beautiful his surroundings might be.
Originally he was a farmer, for he passed his early life in a
cornfield, where he was supposed to frighten away the crows."

"I know," said Dorothy, nodding.  "I found him, and lifted him down
from his pole."

"So now, after a long residence in the Emerald City, his tastes have
turned to farm life again," continued the Tin Man.  "He feels that he
cannot be happy without a farm of his own, so Ozma gave him some land
and every one helped him build his mansion, and now he is settled there
for good."

"Who designed his house?" asked the Shaggy Man.

"I believe it was Jack Pumpkinhead, who is also a farmer," was the
reply.

They were now invited to enter the tin dining room, where luncheon was
served.

Aunt Em found, to her satisfaction, that Dorothy's promise was more
than fulfilled; for, although the Tin Woodman had no appetite of his
own, he respected the appetites of his guests and saw that they were
bountifully fed.

They passed the afternoon in wandering through the beautiful gardens
and grounds of the palace.  The walks were all paved with sheets of
tin, brightly polished, and there were tin fountains and tin statues
here and there among the trees.  The flowers were mostly natural
flowers and grew in the regular way; but their host showed them one
flower bed which was his especial pride.

"You see, all common flowers fade and die in time," he explained, "and
so there are seasons when the pretty blooms are scarce.  Therefore I
decided to make one tin flower bed all of tin flowers, and my workmen
have created them with rare skill.  Here you see tin camelias, tin
marigolds, tin carnations, tin poppies and tin hollyhocks growing as
naturally as if they were real."

Indeed, they were a pretty sight, and glistened under the sunlight like
spun silver.  "Isn't this tin hollyhock going to seed?" asked the
Wizard, bending over the flowers.

"Why, I believe it is!" exclaimed the Tin Woodman, as if surprised.  "I
hadn't noticed that before.  But I shall plant the tin seeds and raise
another bed of tin hollyhocks."

In one corner of the gardens Nick Chopper had established a fish-pond
in which they saw swimming and disporting themselves many pretty tin
fishes.

"Would they bite on hooks?" asked Aunt Em, curiously.

The Tin Woodman seemed hurt at this question.

"Madam," said he, "do you suppose I would allow anyone to catch my
beautiful fishes, even if they were foolish enough to bite on hooks?
No, indeed!  Every created thing is safe from harm in my domain, and I
would as soon think of killing my little friend Dorothy as killing one
of my tin fishes."

"The Emperor is very kind-hearted, ma'am," explained the Wizard.  "If a
fly happens to light upon his tin body he doesn't rudely brush it off,
as some people might do; he asks it politely to find some other resting
place."

"What does the fly do then?" enquired Aunt Em.

"Usually it begs his pardon and goes away," said the Wizard, gravely.
"Flies like to be treated politely as well as other creatures, and here
in Oz they understand what we say to them, and behave very nicely."

"Well," said Aunt Em, "the flies in Kansas, where I came from, don't
understand anything but a swat.  You have to smash 'em to make 'em
behave; and it's the same way with 'skeeters.  Do you have 'skeeters in
Oz?"

"We have some very large mosquitoes here, which sing as beautifully as
song birds," replied the Tin Woodman.  "But they never bite or annoy
our people, because they are well fed and taken care of.  The reason
they bite people in your country is because they are hungry--poor
things!"

"Yes," agreed Aunt Em; "they're hungry, all right.  An' they ain't very
particular who they feed on.  I'm glad you've got the 'skeeters
educated in Oz."

That evening after dinner they were entertained by the Emperor's Tin
Cornet Band, which played for them several sweet melodies.  Also the
Wizard did a few sleight-of-hand tricks to amuse the company; after
which they all retired to their cozy tin bedrooms and slept soundly
until morning.

After breakfast Dorothy said to the Tin Woodman:

"If you'll tell us which way to go we'll visit the Scarecrow on our way
home."

"I will go with you, and show you the way," replied the Emperor; "for I
must journey to-day to the Emerald City."

He looked so anxious, as he said this, that the little girl asked:

"There isn't anything wrong with Ozma, is there?"

"Not yet," said he; "but I'm afraid the time has come when I must tell
you some very bad news, little friend."

"Oh, what is it?" cried Dorothy.

"Do you remember the Nome King?" asked the Tin Woodman.

"I remember him very well," she replied.

"The Nome King has not a kind heart," said the Emperor, sadly, "and he
has been harboring wicked thoughts of revenge, because we once defeated
him and liberated his slaves and you took away his Magic Belt.  So he
has ordered his Nomes to dig a long tunnel underneath the deadly
desert, so that he may march his hosts right into the Emerald City.
When he gets there he intends to destroy our beautiful country."

Dorothy was much surprised to hear this.

"How did Ozma find out about the tunnel?" she asked.

"She saw it in her Magic Picture."

"Of course," said Dorothy; "I might have known that.  And what is she
going to do?"

"I cannot tell," was the reply.

"Pooh!" cried the Yellow Hen.  "We're not afraid of the Nomes.  If we
roll a few of our eggs down the tunnel they'll run away back home as
fast as they can go."

"Why, that's true enough!" exclaimed Dorothy.  "The Scarecrow once
conquered all the Nome King's army with some of Billina's eggs."

"But you do not understand all of the dreadful plot," continued the Tin
Woodman.  "The Nome King is clever, and he knows his Nomes would run
from eggs; so he has bargained with many terrible creatures to help
him.  These evil spirits are not afraid of eggs or anything else, and
they are very powerful.  So the Nome King will send them through the
tunnel first, to conquer and destroy, and then the Nomes will follow
after to get their share of the plunder and slaves."

They were all startled to hear this, and every face wore a troubled
look.

"Is the tunnel all ready?" asked Dorothy.

"Ozma sent me word yesterday that the tunnel was all completed except
for a thin crust of earth at the end.  When our enemies break through
this crust, they will be in the gardens of the royal palace, in the
heart of the Emerald City.  I offered to arm all my Winkies and march
to Ozma's assistance; but she said no."

"I wonder why?" asked Dorothy.

"She answered that all the inhabitants of Oz, gathered together, were
not powerful enough to fight and overcome the evil forces of the Nome
King.  Therefore she refuses to fight at all."

"But they will capture and enslave us, and plunder and ruin all our
lovely land!" exclaimed the Wizard, greatly disturbed by this statement.

"I fear they will," said the Tin Woodman, sorrowfully.  "And I also
fear that those who are not fairies, such as the Wizard, and Dorothy,
and her uncle and aunt, as well as Toto and Billina, will be speedily
put to death by the conquerors."

"What can be done?" asked Dorothy, shuddering a little at the prospect
of this awful fate.

"Nothing can be done!" gloomily replied the Emperor of the Winkies.
"But since Ozma refuses my army I will go myself to the Emerald City.
The least I may do is to perish beside my beloved Ruler."



25.  How the Scarecrow Displayed His Wisdom

This amazing news had saddened every heart and all were now anxious to
return to the Emerald City and share Ozma's fate.  So they started
without loss of time, and as the road led past the Scarecrow's new
mansion they determined to make a brief halt there and confer with him.

"The Scarecrow is probably the wisest man in all Oz," remarked the Tin
Woodman, when they had started upon their journey.  "His brains are
plentiful and of excellent quality, and often he has told me things I
might never have thought of myself.  I must say I rely a great deal
upon the Scarecrow's brains in this emergency."

The Tin Woodman rode on the front seat of the wagon, where Dorothy sat
between him and the Wizard.

"Has the Scarecrow heard of Ozma's trouble?" asked the Captain General.

"I do not know, sir," was the reply.

"When I was a private," said Omby Amby, "I was an excellent army, as I
fully proved in our war against the Nomes.  But now there is not a
single private left in our army, since Ozma made me the Captain
General, so there is no one to fight and defend our lovely Ruler."

"True," said the Wizard.  "The present army is composed only of
officers, and the business of an officer is to order his men to fight.
Since there are no men there can be no fighting."

"Poor Ozma!" whispered Dorothy, with tears in her sweet eyes.  "It's
dreadful to think of all her lovely fairy country being destroyed.  I
wonder if we couldn't manage to escape and get back to Kansas by means
of the Magic Belt?  And we might take Ozma with us and all work hard to
get money for her, so she wouldn't be so VERY lonely and unhappy about
the loss of her fairyland."

"Do you think there would be any work for ME in Kansas?" asked the Tin
Woodman.

"If you are hollow, they might use you in a canning factory," suggested
Uncle Henry.  "But I can't see the use of your working for a living.
You never eat or sleep or need a new suit of clothes."

"I was not thinking of myself," replied the Emperor, with dignity.  "I
merely wondered if I could not help to support Dorothy and Ozma."

As they indulged in these sad plans for the future they journeyed in
sight of the Scarecrow's new mansion, and even though filled with care
and worry over the impending fate of Oz, Dorothy couldn't help a
feeling of wonder at the sight she saw.

The Scarecrow's new house was shaped like an immense ear of corn.  The
rows of kernels were made of solid gold, and the green upon which the
ear stood upright was a mass of sparkling emeralds.  Upon the very top
of the structure was perched a figure representing the Scarecrow
himself, and upon his extended arms, as well as upon his head, were
several crows carved out of ebony and having ruby eyes.  You may
imagine how big this ear of corn was when I tell you that a single gold
kernel formed a window, swinging outward upon hinges, while a row of
four kernels opened to make the front entrance.  Inside there were five
stories, each story being a single room.

The gardens around the mansion consisted of cornfields, and Dorothy
acknowledged that the place was in all respects a very appropriate home
for her good friend the Scarecrow.

"He would have been very happy here, I'm sure," she said, "if only the
Nome King had left us alone.  But if Oz is destroyed of course this
place will be destroyed too."

"Yes," replied the Tin Woodman, "and also my beautiful tin castle, that
has been my joy and pride."

"Jack Pumpkinhead's house will go too," remarked the Wizard, "as well
as Professor Wogglebug's Athletic College, and Ozma's royal palace, and
all our other handsome buildings."

"Yes, Oz will indeed become a desert when the Nome King gets through
with it," sighed Omby Amby.

The Scarecrow came out to meet them and gave them all a hearty welcome.

"I hear you have decided always to live in the Land of Oz, after this,"
he said to Dorothy; "and that will delight my heart, for I have greatly
disliked our frequent partings.  But why are you all so downcast?"

"Have you heard the news?" asked the Tin Woodman.

"No news to make me sad," replied the Scarecrow.

Then Nick Chopper told his friend of the Nome King's tunnel, and how
the evil creatures of the North had allied themselves with the
underground monarch for the purpose of conquering and destroying Oz.
"Well," said the Scarecrow, "it certainly looks bad for Ozma, and all
of us.  But I believe it is wrong to worry over anything before it
happens.  It is surely time enough to be sad when our country is
despoiled and our people made slaves.  So let us not deprive ourselves
of the few happy hours remaining to us."

"Ah! that is real wisdom," declared the Shaggy Man, approvingly.
"After we become really unhappy we shall regret these few hours that
are left to us, unless we enjoy them to the utmost."

"Nevertheless," said the Scarecrow, "I shall go with you to the Emerald
City and offer Ozma my services."

"She says we can do nothing to oppose our enemies," announced the Tin
Woodman.

"And doubtless she is right, sir," answered the Scarecrow.  "Still, she
will appreciate our sympathy, and it is the duty of Ozma's friends to
stand by her side when the final disaster occurs."

He then led them into his queer mansion and showed them the beautiful
rooms in all the five stories.  The lower room was a grand reception
hall, with a hand-organ in one corner.  This instrument the Scarecrow,
when alone, could turn to amuse himself, as he was very fond of music.
The walls were hung with white silk, upon which flocks of black crows
were embroidered in black diamonds.  Some of the chairs were made in
the shape of big crows and upholstered with cushions of corn-colored
silk.

The second story contained a fine banquet room, where the Scarecrow
might entertain his guests, and the three stories above that were
bed-chambers exquisitely furnished and decorated.

"From these rooms," said the Scarecrow, proudly, "one may obtain fine
views of the surrounding cornfields.  The corn I grow is always husky,
and I call the ears my regiments, because they have so many kernels.
Of course I cannot ride my cobs, but I really don't care shucks about
that.  Taken altogether, my farm will stack up with any in the
neighborhood."

The visitors partook of some light refreshment and then hurried away to
resume the road to the Emerald City.  The Scarecrow found a seat in the
wagon between Omby Amby and the Shaggy Man, and his weight did not add
much to the load because he was stuffed with straw.

"You will notice I have one oat-field on my property," he remarked, as
they drove away.  "Oat-straw is, I have found, the best of all straws
to re-stuff myself with when my interior gets musty or out of shape."

"Are you able to re-stuff yourself without help?" asked Aunt Em.  "I
should think that after the straw was taken out of you there wouldn't
be anything left but your clothes."

"You are almost correct, madam," he answered.  "My servants do the
stuffing, under my direction.  For my head, in which are my excellent
brains, is a bag tied at the bottom.  My face is neatly painted upon
one side of the bag, as you may see.  My head does not need
re-stuffing, as my body does, for all that it requires is to have the
face touched up with fresh paint occasionally."

It was not far from the Scarecrow's mansion to the farm of Jack
Pumpkinhead, and when they arrived there both Uncle Henry and Aunt Em
were much impressed.  The farm was one vast pumpkin field, and some of
the pumpkins were of enormous size.  In one of them, which had been
neatly hollowed out, Jack himself lived, and he declared that it was a
very comfortable residence.  The reason he grew so many pumpkins was in
order that he might change his head as often as it became wrinkled or
threatened to spoil.

The pumpkin-headed man welcomed his visitors joyfully and offered them
several delicious pumpkin pies to eat.

"I don't indulge in pumpkin pies myself, for two reasons," he said.
"One reason is that were I to eat pumpkins I would become a cannibal,
and the other reason is that I never eat, not being hollow inside."

"Very good reasons," agreed the Scarecrow.

They told Jack Pumpkinhead of the dreadful news about the Nome King,
and he decided to go with them to the Emerald City and help comfort
Ozma.

"I had expected to live here in ease and comfort for many centuries,"
said Jack, dolefully; "but of course if the Nome King destroys
everything in Oz I shall be destroyed too.  Really, it seems too bad,
doesn't it?"

They were soon on their journey again, and so swiftly did the Sawhorse
draw the wagon over the smooth roads that before twilight fell they had
reached the royal palace in the Emerald City, and were at their
journey's end.



26.  How Ozma Refused to Fight for Her Kingdom

Ozma was in her rose garden picking a bouquet when the party arrived,
and she greeted all her old and new friends as smilingly and sweetly as
ever.

Dorothy's eyes were full of tears as she kissed the lovely Ruler of Oz,
and she whispered to her:

"Oh, Ozma, Ozma!  I'm SO sorry!"

Ozma seemed surprised.

"Sorry for what, Dorothy?" she asked.

"For all your trouble about the Nome King," was the reply.

Ozma laughed with genuine amusement.

"Why, that has not troubled me a bit, dear Princess," she replied.
Then, looking around at the sad faces of her friends, she added: "Have
you all been worrying about this tunnel?"

"We have!" they exclaimed in a chorus.

"Well, perhaps it is more serious than I imagined," admitted the fair
Ruler; "but I haven't given the matter much thought.  After dinner we
will all meet together and talk it over."

So they went to their rooms and prepared for dinner, and Dorothy
dressed herself in her prettiest gown and put on her coronet, for she
thought that this might be the last time she would ever appear as a
Princess of Oz.

The Scarecrow, the Tin Woodman and Jack Pumpkinhead all sat at the
dinner table, although none of them was made so he could eat.  Usually
they served to enliven the meal with their merry talk, but to-night all
seemed strangely silent and uneasy.

As soon as the dinner was finished Ozma led the company to her own
private room in which hung the Magic Picture.  When they had seated
themselves the Scarecrow was the first to speak.

"Is the Nome King's tunnel finished, Ozma?" he asked.

"It was completed to-day," she replied.  "They have built it right
under my palace grounds, and it ends in front of the Forbidden
Fountain.  Nothing but a crust of earth remains to separate our enemies
from us, and when they march here, they will easily break through this
crust and rush upon us."

"Who will assist the Nome King?" inquired the Scarecrow.

"The Whimsies, the Growleywogs and the Phanfasms," she replied.  "I
watched to-day in my Magic Picture the messengers whom the Nome King
sent to all these people to summon them to assemble in his great
caverns."

"Let us see what they are doing now," suggested the Tin Woodman.

So Ozma wished to see the Nome King's cavern, and at once the landscape
faded from the Magic Picture and was replaced by the scene then being
enacted in the jeweled cavern of King Roquat.

A wild and startling scene it was which the Oz people beheld.

Before the Nome King stood the Chief of the Whimsies and the Grand
Gallipoot of the Growleywogs, surrounded by their most skillful
generals.  Very fierce and powerful they looked, so that even the Nome
King and General Guph, who stood beside his master, seemed a bit
fearful in the presence of their allies.

Now a still more formidable creature entered the cavern.  It was the
First and Foremost of the Phanfasms and he proudly sat down in King
Roquat's own throne and demanded the right to lead his forces through
the tunnel in advance of all the others.  The First and Foremost now
appeared to all eyes in his hairy skin and the bear's head.  What his
real form was even Roquat did not know.

Through the arches leading into the vast series of caverns that lay
beyond the throne room of King Roquat could be seen ranks upon ranks of
the invaders--thousands of Phanfasms, Growleywogs and Whimsies standing
in serried lines, while behind them were massed the thousands upon
thousands of General Guph's own army of Nomes.

"Listen!" whispered Ozma.  "I think we can hear what they are saying."

So they kept still and listened.

"Is all ready?" demanded the First and Foremost, haughtily.

"The tunnel is finally completed," replied General Guph.

"How long will it take us to march to the Emerald City?" asked the
Grand Gallipoot of the Growleywogs.

"If we start at midnight," replied the Nome King, "we shall arrive at
the Emerald City by daybreak.  Then, while all the Oz people are
sleeping, we will capture them and make them our slaves.  After that we
will destroy the city itself and march through the Land of Oz, burning
and devastating as we go."

"Good!" cried the First and Foremost.  "When we get through with Oz it
will be a desert wilderness.  Ozma shall be my slave."

"She shall be MY slave!" shouted the Grand Gallipoot, angrily.

"We'll decide that by and by," said King Roquat hastily.  "Don't let us
quarrel now, friends.  First let us conquer Oz, and then we will divide
the spoils of war in a satisfactory manner."

The First and Foremost smiled wickedly; but he only said:

"I and my Phanfasms go first, for nothing on earth can oppose our
power."

They all agreed to that, knowing the Phanfasms to be the mightiest of
the combined forces.  King Roquat now invited them to attend a banquet
he had prepared, where they might occupy themselves in eating and
drinking until midnight arrived.

As they had now seen and heard all of the plot against them that they
cared to, Ozma allowed her Magic Picture to fade away.  Then she turned
to her friends and said:

"Our enemies will be here sooner than I expected.  What do you advise
me to do?"

"It is now too late to assemble our people," said the Tin Woodman,
despondently.  "If you had allowed me to arm and drill my Winkies, we
might have put up a good fight and destroyed many of our enemies before
we were conquered."

"The Munchkins are good fighters, too," said Omby Amby; "and so are the
Gillikins."

"But I do not wish to fight," declared Ozma, firmly.  "No one has the
right to destroy any living creatures, however evil they may be, or to
hurt them or make them unhappy.  I will not fight, even to save my
kingdom."

"The Nome King is not so particular," remarked the Scarecrow.  "He
intends to destroy us all and ruin our beautiful country."

"Because the Nome King intends to do evil is no excuse for my doing the
same," replied Ozma.

"Self-preservation is the first law of nature," quoted the Shaggy Man.

"True," she said, readily.  "I would like to discover a plan to save
ourselves without fighting."

That seemed a hopeless task to them, but realizing that Ozma was
determined not to fight, they tried to think of some means that might
promise escape.

"Couldn't we bribe our enemies, by giving them a lot of emeralds and
gold?" asked Jack Pumpkinhead.

"No, because they believe they are able to take everything we have,"
replied the Ruler.

"I have thought of something," said Dorothy.

"What is it, dear?" asked Ozma.

"Let us use the Magic Belt to wish all of us in Kansas.  We will put
some emeralds in our pockets, and can sell them in Topeka for enough to
pay off the mortgage on Uncle Henry's farm.  Then we can all live
together and be happy."

"A clever idea!" exclaimed the Scarecrow.

"Kansas is a very good country.  I've been there," said the Shaggy Man.

"That seems to me an excellent plan," approved the Tin Woodman.

"No!" said Ozma, decidedly.  "Never will I desert my people and leave
them to so cruel a fate.  I will use the Magic Belt to send the rest of
you to Kansas, if you wish, but if my beloved country must be destroyed
and my people enslaved I will remain and share their fate."

"Quite right," asserted the Scarecrow, sighing.  "I will remain with
you."

"And so will I," declared the Tin Woodman and the Shaggy Man and Jack
Pumpkinhead, in turn.  Tiktok, the machine man, also said he intended
to stand by Ozma.  "For," said he, "I should be of no use at all in
Kan-sas."

"For my part," announced Dorothy, gravely, "if the Ruler of Oz must not
desert her people, a Princess of Oz has no right to run away, either.
I'm willing to become a slave with the rest of you; so all we can do
with the Magic Belt is to use it to send Uncle Henry and Aunt Em back
to Kansas."

"I've been a slave all my life," Aunt Em replied, with considerable
cheerfulness, "and so has Henry.  I guess we won't go back to Kansas,
anyway.  I'd rather take my chances with the rest of you."

Ozma smiled upon them all gratefully.

"There is no need to despair just yet," she said.  "I'll get up early
to-morrow morning and be at the Forbidden Fountain when the fierce
warriors break through the crust of the earth.  I will speak to them
pleasantly and perhaps they won't be so very bad, after all."

"Why do they call it the Forbidden Fountain?" asked Dorothy,
thoughtfully.

"Don't you know, dear?" returned Ozma, surprised.

"No," said Dorothy.  "Of course I've seen the fountain in the palace
grounds, ever since I first came to Oz; and I've read the sign which
says: 'All Persons are Forbidden to Drink at this Fountain.'  But I
never knew WHY they were forbidden.  The water seems clear and
sparkling and it bubbles up in a golden basin all the time."

"That water," declared Ozma, gravely, "is the most dangerous thing in
all the Land of Oz.  It is the Water of Oblivion."

"What does that mean?" asked Dorothy.

"Whoever drinks at the Forbidden Fountain at once forgets everything he
has ever known," Ozma asserted.

"It wouldn't be a bad way to forget our troubles," suggested Uncle
Henry.

"That is true; but you would forget everything else, and become as
ignorant as a baby," returned Ozma.

"Does it make one crazy?" asked Dorothy.

"No; it only makes one forget," replied the girl Ruler.  "It is said
that once--long, long ago--a wicked King ruled Oz, and made himself and
all his people very miserable and unhappy.  So Glinda, the Good
Sorceress, placed this fountain here, and the King drank of its water
and forgot all his wickedness.  His mind became innocent and vacant,
and when he learned the things of life again they were all good things.
But the people remembered how wicked their King had been, and were
still afraid of him.  Therefore, he made them all drink of the Water of
Oblivion and forget everything they had known, so that they became as
simple and innocent as their King.  After that, they all grew wise
together, and their wisdom was good, so that peace and happiness
reigned in the land.  But for fear some one might drink of the water
again, and in an instant forget all he had learned, the King put that
sign upon the fountain, where it has remained for many centuries up to
this very day."

They had all listened intently to Ozma's story, and when she finished
speaking there was a long period of silence while all thought upon the
curious magical power of the Water of Oblivion.

Finally the Scarecrow's painted face took on a broad smile that
stretched the cloth as far as it would go.

"How thankful I am," he said, "that I have such an excellent assortment
of brains!"

"I gave you the best brains I ever mixed," declared the Wizard, with an
air of pride.

"You did, indeed!" agreed the Scarecrow, "and they work so splendidly
that they have found a way to save Oz--to save us all!"

"I'm glad to hear that," said the Wizard.  "We never needed saving more
than we do just now."

"Do you mean to say you can save us from those awful Phanfasms, and
Growleywogs and Whimsies?" asked Dorothy eagerly.

"I'm sure of it, my dear," asserted the Scarecrow, still smiling
genially.

"Tell us how!" cried the Tin Woodman.

"Not now," said the Scarecrow.  "You may all go to bed, and I advise
you to forget your worries just as completely as if you had drunk of
the Water of Oblivion in the Forbidden Fountain.  I'm going to stay
here and tell my plan to Ozma alone, but if you will all be at the
Forbidden Fountain at daybreak, you'll see how easily we will save the
kingdom when our enemies break through the crust of earth and come from
the tunnel."

So they went away and let the Scarecrow and Ozma alone; but Dorothy
could not sleep a wink all night.

"He is only a Scarecrow," she said to herself, "and I'm not sure that
his mixed brains are as clever as he thinks they are."

But she knew that if the Scarecrow's plan failed they were all lost; so
she tried to have faith in him.



27.  How the Fierce Warriors Invaded Oz

The Nome King and his terrible allies sat at the banquet table until
midnight.  There was much quarreling between the Growleywogs and
Phanfasms, and one of the wee-headed Whimsies got angry at General Guph
and choked him until he nearly stopped breathing.  Yet no one was
seriously hurt, and the Nome King felt much relieved when the clock
struck twelve and they all sprang up and seized their weapons.

"Aha!" shouted the First and Foremost.  "Now to conquer the Land of Oz!"

He marshaled his Phanfasms in battle array and at his word of command
they marched into the tunnel and began the long journey through it to
the Emerald City.  The First and Foremost intended to take all the
treasures of Oz for himself; to kill all who could be killed and
enslave the rest; to destroy and lay waste the whole country, and
afterward to conquer and enslave the Nomes, the Growleywogs and the
Whimsies.  And he knew his power was sufficient to enable him to do all
these things easily.

Next marched into the tunnel the army of gigantic Growleywogs, with
their Grand Gallipoot at their head.  They were dreadful beings,
indeed, and longed to get to Oz that they might begin to pilfer and
destroy.  The Grand Gallipoot was a little afraid of the First and
Foremost, but had a cunning plan to murder or destroy that powerful
being and secure the wealth of Oz for himself.  Mighty little of the
plunder would the Nome King get, thought the Grand Gallipoot.

The Chief of the Whimsies now marched his false-headed forces into the
tunnel.  In his wicked little head was a plot to destroy both the First
and Foremost and the Grand Gallipoot.  He intended to let them conquer
Oz, since they insisted on going first; but he would afterward
treacherously destroy them, as well as King Roquat, and keep all the
slaves and treasure of Ozma's kingdom for himself.

After all his dangerous allies had marched into the tunnel the Nome
King and General Guph started to follow them, at the head of fifty
thousand Nomes, all fully armed.

"Guph," said the King, "those creatures ahead of us mean mischief.
They intend to get everything for themselves and leave us nothing."

"I know," replied the General; "but they are not as clever as they
think they are.  When you get the Magic Belt you must at once wish the
Whimsies and Growleywogs and Phanfasms all back into their own
countries--and the Belt will surely take them there."

"Good!" cried the King.  "An excellent plan, Guph.  I'll do it.  While
they are conquering Oz I'll get the Magic Belt, and then only the Nomes
will remain to ravage the country."

So you see there was only one thing that all were agreed upon--that Oz
should be destroyed.

On, on, on the vast ranks of invaders marched, filling the tunnel from
side to side.  With a steady tramp, tramp, they advanced, every step
taking them nearer to the beautiful Emerald City.

"Nothing can save the Land of Oz!" thought the First and Foremost,
scowling until his bear face was as black as the tunnel.

"The Emerald City is as good as destroyed already!" muttered the Grand
Gallipoot, shaking his war club fiercely.

"In a few hours Oz will be a desert!" said the Chief of the Whimsies,
with an evil laugh.

"My dear Guph," remarked the Nome King to his General, "at last my
vengeance upon Ozma of Oz and her people is about to be accomplished."

"You are right!" declared the General.  "Ozma is surely lost."

And now the First and Foremost, who was in advance and nearing the
Emerald City, began to cough and to sneeze.

"This tunnel is terribly dusty," he growled, angrily.  "I'll punish
that Nome King for not having it swept clean.  My throat and eyes are
getting full of dust and I'm as thirsty as a fish!"

The Grand Gallipoot was coughing too, and his throat was parched and
dry.

"What a dusty place!" he cried.  "I'll be glad when we reach Oz, where
we can get a drink."

"Who has any water?" asked the Whimsie Chief, gasping and choking.  But
none of his followers carried a drop of water, so he hastened on to get
through the dusty tunnel to the Land of Oz.

"Where did all this dust come from?" demanded General Guph, trying hard
to swallow but finding his throat so dry he couldn't.

"I don't know," answered the Nome King.  "I've been in the tunnel every
day while it was being built, but I never noticed any dust before."

"Let's hurry!" cried the General.  "I'd give half the gold in Oz for a
drink of water."

The dust grew thicker and thicker, and the throats and eyes and noses
of the invaders were filled with it.  But not one halted or turned
back.  They hurried forward more fierce and vengeful than ever.



28.  How They Drank at the Forbidden Fountain

The Scarecrow had no need to sleep; neither had the Tin Woodman or
Tiktok or Jack Pumpkinhead.  So they all wandered out into the palace
grounds and stood beside the sparkling water of the Forbidden Fountain
until daybreak.  During this time they indulged in occasional
conversation.

"Nothing could make me forget what I know," remarked the Scarecrow,
gazing into the fountain, "for I cannot drink the Water of Oblivion or
water of any kind.  And I am glad that this is so, for I consider my
wisdom unexcelled."

"You are cer-tain-ly ve-ry wise," agreed Tiktok.  "For my part, I can
on-ly think by ma-chin-er-y, so I do not pre-tend to know as much as
you do."

"My tin brains are very bright, but that is all I claim for them," said
Nick Chopper, modestly.  "Yet I do not aspire to being very wise, for I
have noticed that the happiest people are those who do not let their
brains oppress them."

"Mine never worry me," Jack Pumpkinhead acknowledged.  "There are many
seeds of thought in my head, but they do not sprout easily.  I am glad
that it is so, for if I occupied my days in thinking I should have no
time for anything else."

In this cheery mood they passed the hours until the first golden
streaks of dawn appeared in the sky.  Then Ozma joined them, as fresh
and lovely as ever and robed in one of her prettiest gowns.

"Our enemies have not yet arrived," said the Scarecrow, after greeting
affectionately the sweet and girlish Ruler.

"They will soon be here," she said, "for I have just glanced at my
Magic Picture, and have seen them coughing and choking with the dust in
the tunnel."

"Oh, is there dust in the tunnel?" asked the Tin Woodman.

"Yes; Ozma placed it there by means of the Magic Belt," explained the
Scarecrow, with one of his broad smiles.

Then Dorothy came to them, Uncle Henry and Aunt Em following close
after her.  The little girl's eyes were heavy because she had had a
sleepless and anxious night.  Toto walked by her side, but the little
dog's spirits were very much subdued.  Billina, who was always up by
daybreak, was not long in joining the group by the fountain.

The Wizard and the Shaggy Man next arrived, and soon after appeared
Omby Amby, dressed in his best uniform.

"There lies the tunnel," said Ozma, pointing to a part of the ground
just before the Forbidden Fountain, "and in a few moments the dreadful
invaders will break through the earth and swarm over the land.  Let us
all stand on the other side of the Fountain and watch to see what
happens."

At once they followed her suggestion and moved around the fountain of
the Water of Oblivion.  There they stood silent and expectant until the
earth beyond gave way with a sudden crash and up leaped the powerful
form of the First and Foremost, followed by all his grim warriors.

As the leader sprang forward his gleaming eyes caught the play of the
fountain and he rushed toward it and drank eagerly of the sparkling
water.  Many of the other Phanfasms drank, too, in order to clear their
dry and dusty throats.  Then they stood around and looked at one
another with simple, wondering smiles.

The First and Foremost saw Ozma and her companions beyond the fountain,
but instead of making an effort to capture her he merely stared at her
in pleased admiration of her beauty--for he had forgotten where he was
and why he had come there.

But now the Grand Gallipoot arrived, rushing from the tunnel with a
hoarse cry of mingled rage and thirst.  He too saw the fountain and
hastened to drink of its forbidden waters.  The other Growleywogs were
not slow to follow suit, and even before they had finished drinking the
Chief of the Whimsies and his people came to push them away, while they
one and all cast off their false heads that they might slake their
thirst at the fountain.

When the Nome King and General Guph arrived they both made a dash to
drink, but the General was so mad with thirst that he knocked his King
over, and while Roquat lay sprawling upon the ground the General drank
heartily of the Water of Oblivion.

This rude act of his General made the Nome King so angry that for a
moment he forgot he was thirsty and rose to his feet to glare upon the
group of terrible warriors he had brought here to assist him.  He saw
Ozma and her people, too, and yelled out:

"Why don't you capture them?  Why don't you conquer Oz, you idiots?
Why do you stand there like a lot of dummies?"

But the great warriors had become like little children.  They had
forgotten all their enmity against Ozma and against Oz.  They had even
forgotten who they themselves were, or why they were in this strange
and beautiful country.  As for the Nome King, they did not recognize
him, and wondered who he was.

The sun came up and sent its flood of silver rays to light the faces of
the invaders.  The frowns and scowls and evil looks were all gone.
Even the most monstrous of the creatures there assembled smiled
innocently and seemed light-hearted and content merely to be alive.

Not so with Roquat, the Nome King.  He had not drunk from the Forbidden
Fountain and all his former rage against Ozma and Dorothy now inflamed
him as fiercely as ever.  The sight of General Guph babbling like a
happy child and playing with his hands in the cool waters of the
fountain astonished and maddened Red Roquat.  Seeing that his terrible
allies and his own General refused to act, the Nome King turned to
order his great army of Nomes to advance from the tunnel and seize the
helpless Oz people.

But the Scarecrow suspected what was in the King's mind and spoke a
word to the Tin Woodman.  Together they ran at Roquat and grabbing him
up tossed him into the great basin of the fountain.

The Nome King's body was round as a ball, and it bobbed up and down in
the Water of Oblivion while he spluttered and screamed with fear lest
he should drown.  And when he cried out, his mouth filled with water,
which ran down his throat, so that straightway he forgot all he had
formerly known just as completely as had all the other invaders.

Ozma and Dorothy could not refrain from laughing to see their dreaded
enemies become as harmless as babies.  There was no danger now that Oz
would be destroyed.  The only question remaining to solve was how to
get rid of this horde of intruders.

The Shaggy Man kindly pulled the Nome King out of the fountain and set
him upon his thin legs.  Roquat was dripping wet, but he chattered and
laughed and wanted to drink more of the water.  No thought of injuring
any person was now in his mind.

Before he left the tunnel he had commanded his fifty thousand Nomes to
remain there until he ordered them to advance, as he wished to give his
allies time to conquer Oz before he appeared with his own army.  Ozma
did not wish all these Nomes to overrun her land, so she advanced to
King Roquat and taking his hand in her own said gently:

"Who are you?  What is your name?"

"I don't know," he replied, smiling at her.  "Who are you, my dear?"

"My name is Ozma," she said; "and your name is Roquat."

"Oh, is it?" he replied, seeming pleased.

"Yes; you are King of the Nomes," she said.

"Ah; I wonder what the Nomes are!" returned the King, as if puzzled.

"They are underground elves, and that tunnel over there is full of
them," she answered.  "You have a beautiful cavern at the other end of
the tunnel, so you must go to your Nomes and say: 'March home!'  Then
follow after them and in time you will reach the pretty cavern where
you live."

The Nome King was much pleased to learn this, for he had forgotten he
had a cavern.  So he went to the tunnel and said to his army: 'March
home!'  At once the Nomes turned and marched back through the tunnel,
and the King followed after them, laughing with delight to find his
orders so readily obeyed.

The Wizard went to General Guph, who was trying to count his fingers,
and told him to follow the Nome King, who was his master.  Guph meekly
obeyed, and so all the Nomes quitted the Land of Oz forever.

But there were still the Phanfasms and Whimsies and Growleywogs
standing around in groups, and they were so many that they filled the
gardens and trampled upon the flowers and grass because they did not
know that the tender plants would be injured by their clumsy feet.  But
in all other respects they were perfectly harmless and played together
like children or gazed with pleasure upon the pretty sights of the
royal gardens.

After counseling with the Scarecrow Ozma sent Omby Amby to the palace
for the Magic Belt, and when the Captain General returned with it the
Ruler of Oz at once clasped the precious Belt around her waist.

"I wish all these strange people--the Whimsies and the Growleywogs and
the Phanfasms--safe back in their own homes!" she said.

It all happened in a twinkling, for of course the wish was no sooner
spoken than it was granted.

All the hosts of the invaders were gone, and only the trampled grass
showed that they had ever been in the Land of Oz.



29.  How Glinda Worked a Magic Spell

"That was better than fighting," said Ozma, when all our friends were
assembled in the palace after the exciting events of the morning; and
each and every one agreed with her.

"No one was hurt," said the Wizard, delightedly.

"And no one hurt us," added Aunt Em.

"But, best of all," said Dorothy, "the wicked people have all forgotten
their wickedness, and will not wish to hurt any one after this."

"True, Princess," declared the Shaggy Man.  "It seems to me that to
have reformed all those evil characters is more important than to have
saved Oz."

"Nevertheless," remarked the Scarecrow, "I am glad Oz is saved.  I can
now go back to my new mansion and live happily."

"And I am glad and grateful that my pumpkin farm is saved," said Jack.

"For my part," added the Tin Woodman, "I cannot express my joy that my
lovely tin castle is not to be demolished by wicked enemies."

"Still," said Tiktok, "o-ther en-e-mies may come to Oz some day."

"Why do you allow your clock-work brains to interrupt our joy?" asked
Omby Amby, frowning at the machine man.

"I say what I am wound up to say," answered Tiktok.

"And you are right," declared Ozma.  "I myself have been thinking of
this very idea, and it seems to me there are entirely too many ways for
people to get to the Land of Oz.  We used to think the deadly desert
that surrounds us was enough protection; but that is no longer the
case.  The Wizard and Dorothy have both come here through the air, and
I am told the earth people have invented airships that can fly anywhere
they wish them to go."

"Why, sometimes they do, and sometimes they don't," asserted Dorothy.

"But in time the airships may cause us trouble," continued Ozma, "for
if the earth folk learn how to manage them we would be overrun with
visitors who would ruin our lovely, secluded fairyland."

"That is true enough," agreed the Wizard.

"Also the desert fails to protect us in other ways," Ozma went on,
thoughtfully.  "Johnny Dooit once made a sand-boat that sailed across
it, and the Nome King made a tunnel under it.  So I believe something
ought to be done to cut us off from the rest of the world entirely, so
that no one in the future will ever be able to intrude upon us."

"How will you do that?" asked the Scarecrow.

"I do not know; but in some way I am sure it can be accomplished.
To-morrow I will make a journey to the castle of Glinda the Good, and
ask her advice."

"May I go with you?" asked Dorothy, eagerly.

"Of course, my dear Princess; and I also invite any of our friends here
who would like to undertake the journey."

They all declared they wished to accompany their girl Ruler, for this
was indeed an important mission, since the future of the Land of Oz to
a great extent depended upon it.  So Ozma gave orders to her servants
to prepare for the journey on the morrow.

That day she watched her Magic Picture, and when it showed her that all
the Nomes had returned through the tunnel to their underground caverns,
Ozma used the Magic Belt to close up the tunnel, so that the earth
underneath the desert sands became as solid as it was before the Nomes
began to dig.

Early the following morning a gay cavalcade set out to visit the famous
Sorceress, Glinda the Good.  Ozma and Dorothy rode in a chariot drawn
by the Cowardly Lion and the Hungry Tiger, while the Sawhorse drew the
red wagon in which rode the rest of the party.

With hearts light and free from care they traveled merrily along
through the lovely and fascinating Land of Oz, and in good season
reached the stately castle in which resided the Sorceress.

Glinda knew that they were coming.

"I have been reading about you in my Magic Book," she said, as she
greeted them in her gracious way.

"What is your Magic Book like?" inquired Aunt Em, curiously.

"It is a record of everything that happens," replied the Sorceress.
"As soon as an event takes place, anywhere in the world, it is
immediately found printed in my Magic Book.  So when I read its pages I
am well informed."

"Did it tell you how our enemies drank the Water of 'Blivion?" asked
Dorothy.

"Yes, my dear; it told all about it.  And also it told me you were all
coming to my castle, and why."

"Then," said Ozma, "I suppose you know what is in my mind, and that I
am seeking a way to prevent any one in the future from discovering the
Land of Oz."

"Yes; I know that.  And while you were on your journey I have thought
of a way to accomplish your desire.  For it seems to me unwise to allow
too many outside people to come here.  Dorothy, with her uncle and
aunt, has now returned to Oz to live always, and there is no reason why
we should leave any way open for others to travel uninvited to our
fairyland.  Let us make it impossible for any one ever to communicate
with us in any way, after this.  Then we may live peacefully and
contentedly."

"Your advice is wise," returned Ozma.  "I thank you, Glinda, for your
promise to assist me."

"But how can you do it?" asked Dorothy.  "How can you keep every one
from ever finding Oz?"

"By making our country invisible to all eyes but our own," replied the
Sorceress, smiling.  "I have a magic charm powerful enough to
accomplish that wonderful feat, and now that we have been warned of our
danger by the Nome King's invasion, I believe we must not hesitate to
separate ourselves forever from all the rest of the world."

"I agree with you," said the Ruler of Oz.

"Won't it make any difference to us?" asked Dorothy, doubtfully.

"No, my dear," Glinda answered, assuringly.  "We shall still be able to
see each other and everything in the Land of Oz.  It won't affect us at
all; but those who fly through the air over our country will look down
and see nothing at all.  Those who come to the edge of the desert, or
try to cross it, will catch no glimpse of Oz, or know in what direction
it lies.  No one will try to tunnel to us again because we cannot be
seen and therefore cannot be found.  In other words, the Land of Oz
will entirely disappear from the knowledge of the rest of the world."

"That's all right," said Dorothy, cheerfully.  "You may make Oz
invis'ble as soon as you please, for all I care."

"It is already invisible," Glinda stated.  "I knew Ozma's wishes, and
performed the Magic Spell before you arrived."

Ozma seized the hand of the Sorceress and pressed it gratefully.

"Thank you!" she said.



30.  How the Story of Oz Came to an End

The writer of these Oz stories has received a little note from Princess
Dorothy of Oz which, for a time, has made him feel rather disconcerted.
The note was written on a broad, white feather from a stork's wing, and
it said:


"YOU WILL NEVER HEAR ANYTHING MORE ABOUT OZ, BECAUSE WE ARE NOW CUT OFF
FOREVER FROM ALL THE REST OF THE WORLD.  BUT TOTO AND I WILL ALWAYS
LOVE YOU AND ALL THE OTHER CHILDREN WHO LOVE US.

"DOROTHY GALE."


This seemed to me too bad, at first, for Oz is a very interesting
fairyland.  Still, we have no right to feel grieved, for we have had
enough of the history of the Land of Oz to fill six story books, and
from its quaint people and their strange adventures we have been able
to learn many useful and amusing things.

So good luck to little Dorothy and her companions.  May they live long
in their invisible country and be very happy!




Chapter One

The Call to Duty


Glinda, the good Sorceress of Oz, sat in the grand court of her palace,
surrounded by her maids of honor--a hundred of the most beautiful girls
of the Fairyland of Oz. The palace court was built of rare marbles,
exquisitely polished. Fountains tinkled musically here and there; the
vast colonnade, open to the south, allowed the maidens, as they raised
their heads from their embroideries, to gaze upon a vista of rose-hued
fields and groves of trees bearing fruits or laden with sweet-scented
flowers. At times one of the girls would start a song, the others
joining in the chorus, or one would rise and dance, gracefully swaying
to the music of a harp played by a companion. And then Glinda smiled,
glad to see her maids mixing play with work.

Presently among the fields an object was seen moving, threading the
broad path that led to the castle gate. Some of the girls looked upon
this object enviously; the Sorceress merely gave it a glance and nodded
her stately head as if pleased, for it meant the coming of her friend
and mistress--the only one in all the land that Glinda bowed to.

Then up the path trotted a wooden animal attached to a red wagon, and
as the quaint steed halted at the gate there descended from the wagon
two young girls, Ozma, Ruler of Oz, and her companion, Princess
Dorothy. Both were dressed in simple white muslin gowns, and as they
ran up the marble steps of the palace they laughed and chatted as gaily
as if they were not the most important persons in the world's loveliest
fairyland.

The maids of honor had risen and stood with bowed heads to greet the
royal Ozma, while Glinda came forward with outstretched arms to greet
her guests.

"We've just come on a visit, you know," said Ozma. "Both Dorothy and I
were wondering how we should pass the day when we happened to think
we'd not been to your Quadling Country for weeks, so we took the
Sawhorse and rode straight here."

"And we came so fast," added Dorothy, "that our hair is blown all
fuzzy, for the Sawhorse makes a wind of his own. Usually it's a day's
journey from the Em'rald City, but I don't s'pose we were two hours on
the way."

"You are most welcome," said Glinda the Sorceress, and led them through
the court to her magnificent reception hall. Ozma took the arm of her
hostess, but Dorothy lagged behind, kissing some of the maids she knew
best, talking with others, and making them all feel that she was their
friend. When at last she joined Glinda and Ozma in the reception hall,
she found them talking earnestly about the condition of the people, and
how to make them more happy and contented--although they were already
the happiest and most contented folks in all the world.

This interested Ozma, of course, but it didn't interest Dorothy very
much, so the little girl ran over to a big table on which was lying
open Glinda's Great Book of Records.

This Book is one of the greatest treasures in Oz, and the Sorceress
prizes it more highly than any of her magical possessions. That is the
reason it is firmly attached to the big marble table by means of golden
chains, and whenever Glinda leaves home she locks the Great Book
together with five jeweled padlocks, and carries the keys safely hidden
in her bosom.

I do not suppose there is any magical thing in any fairyland to compare
with the Record Book, on the pages of which are constantly being
printed a record of every event that happens in any part of the world,
at exactly the moment it happens.  And the records are always truthful,
although sometimes they do not give as many details as one could wish.
But then, lots of things happen, and so the records have to be brief or
even Glinda's Great Book could not hold them all.

Glinda looked at the records several times each day, and Dorothy,
whenever she visited the Sorceress, loved to look in the Book and see
what was happening everywhere. Not much was recorded about the Land of
Oz, which is usually peaceful and uneventful, but today Dorothy found
something which interested her. Indeed, the printed letters were
appearing on the page even while she looked.

"This is funny!" she exclaimed. "Did you know, Ozma, that there were
people in your Land of Oz called Skeezers?"

"Yes," replied Ozma, coming to her side, "I know that on Professor
Wogglebug's Map of the Land of Oz there is a place marked 'Skeezer,'
but what the Skeezers are like I do not know. No one I know has ever
seen them or heard of them. The Skeezer Country is 'way at the upper
edge of the Gillikin Country, with the sandy, impassable desert on one
side and the mountains of Oogaboo on another side. That is a part of
the Land of Oz of which I know very little."

"I guess no one else knows much about it either, unless it's the
Skeezers themselves," remarked Dorothy. "But the Book says: 'The
Skeezers of Oz have declared war on the Flatheads of Oz, and there is
likely to be fighting and much trouble as the result.'"

"Is that all the Book says?" asked Ozma.

"Every word," said Dorothy, and Ozma and Glinda both looked at the
Record and seemed surprised and perplexed.

"Tell me, Glinda," said Ozma, "who are the Flatheads?"

"I cannot, your Majesty," confessed the Sorceress. "Until now I never
have heard of them, nor have I ever heard the Skeezers mentioned. In
the faraway corners of Oz are hidden many curious tribes of people, and
those who never leave their own countries and never are visited by
those from our favored part of Oz, naturally are unknown to me.
However, if you so desire, I can learn through my arts of sorcery
something of the Skeezers and the Flatheads."

"I wish you would," answered Ozma seriously. "You see, Glinda, if these
are Oz people they are my subjects and I cannot allow any wars or
troubles in the Land I rule, if I can possibly help it."

"Very well, your Majesty," said the Sorceress, "I will try to get some
information to guide you. Please excuse me for a time, while I retire
to my Room of Magic and Sorcery."

"May I go with you?" asked Dorothy, eagerly.

"No, Princess," was the reply. "It would spoil the charm to have anyone
present."

So Glinda locked herself in her own Room of Magic and Dorothy and Ozma
waited patiently for her to come out again.

In about an hour Glinda appeared, looking grave and thoughtful.

"Your Majesty," she said to Ozma, "the Skeezers live on a Magic Isle in
a great lake. For that reason--because the Skeezers deal in magic--I
can learn little about them."

"Why, I didn't know there was a lake in that part of Oz," exclaimed
Ozma. "The map shows a river running through the Skeezer Country, but
no lake."

"That is because the person who made the map never had visited that
part of the country," explained the Sorceress. "The lake surely is
there, and in the lake is an island--a Magic Isle--and on that island
live the people called the Skeezers."

"What are they like?" inquired the Ruler of Oz.

"My magic cannot tell me that," confessed Glinda, "for the magic of the
Skeezers prevents anyone outside of their domain knowing anything about
them."

"The Flatheads must know, if they're going to fight the Skeezers,"
suggested Dorothy.

"Perhaps so," Glinda replied, "but I can get little information
concerning the Flatheads, either. They are people who inhabit a
mountain just south of the Lake of the Skeezers. The mountain has steep
sides and a broad, hollow top, like a basin, and in this basin the
Flatheads have their dwellings. They also are magic-workers and usually
keep to themselves and allow no one from outside to visit them. I have
learned that the Flatheads number about one hundred people--men, women
and children--while the Skeezers number just one hundred and one."

"What did they quarrel about, and why do they wish to fight one
another?" was Ozma's next question.

"I cannot tell your Majesty that," said Glinda.

"But see here!" cried Dorothy, "it's against the law for anyone but
Glinda and the Wizard to work magic in the Land of Oz, so if these two
strange people are magic-makers they are breaking the law and ought to
be punished!" Ozma smiled upon her little friend.

"Those who do not know me or my laws," she said, "cannot be expected to
obey my laws. If we know nothing of the Skeezers or the Flatheads, it
is likely that they know nothing of us."

"But they ought to know, Ozma, and we ought to know. Who's going to
tell them, and how are we going to make them behave?"

"That," returned Ozma, "is what I am now considering. What would you
advise, Glinda?"

The Sorceress took a little time to consider this question, before she
made reply. Then she said: "Had you not learned of the existence of the
Flatheads and the Skeezers, through my Book of Records, you would never
have worried about them or their quarrels. So, if you pay no attention
to these peoples, you may never hear of them again."

"But that wouldn't be right," declared Ozma. "I am Ruler of all the
Land of Oz, which includes the Gillikin Country, the Quadling Country,
the Winkie Country and the Munchkin Country, as well as the Emerald
City, and being the Princess of this fairyland it is my duty to make
all my people--wherever they may be--happy and content and to settle
their disputes and keep them from quarreling. So, while the Skeezers
and Flatheads may not know me or that I am their lawful Ruler, I now
know that they inhabit my kingdom and are my subjects, so I would not
be doing my duty if I kept away from them and allowed them to fight."

"That's  a  fact,  Ozma,"  commented  Dorothy. "You've got to go up to
the Gillikin Country and make these people behave themselves and make
up their quarrels. But how are you going to do it?"

"That is what is puzzling me also, your Majesty," said the Sorceress.
"It may be dangerous for you to go into those strange countries, where
the people are possibly fierce and warlike."

"I am not afraid," said Ozma, with a smile.

"'Tisn't a question of being 'fraid," argued Dorothy. "Of course we
know you're a fairy, and can't be killed or hurt, and we know you've a
lot of magic of your own to help you. But, Ozma dear, in spite of all
this you've been in trouble before, on account of wicked enemies, and
it isn't right for the Ruler of all Oz to put herself in danger."

"Perhaps I shall be in no danger at all," returned Ozma, with a little
laugh. "You mustn't imagine danger, Dorothy, for one should only
imagine nice things, and we do not know that the Skeezers and Flatheads
are wicked people or my enemies. Perhaps they would be good and listen
to reason."

"Dorothy is right, your Majesty," asserted the Sorceress. "It is true
we know nothing of these faraway subjects, except that they intend to
fight one another, and have a certain amount of magic power at their
command. Such folks do not like to submit to interference and they are
more likely to resent your coming among them than to receive you kindly
and graciously, as is your due."

"If you had an army to take with you," added Dorothy, "it wouldn't be
so bad; but there isn't such a thing as an army in all Oz."

"I have one soldier," said Ozma.

"Yes, the soldier with the green whiskers; but he's dreadful 'fraid of
his gun and never loads it. I'm sure he'd run rather than fight. And
one soldier, even if he were brave, couldn't do much against two
hundred and one Flatheads and Skeezers."

"What then, my friends, would you suggest?" inquired Ozma.

"I advise you to send the Wizard of Oz to them, and let him inform them
that it is against the laws of Oz to fight, and that you command them
to settle their differences and become friends," proposed Glinda. "Let
the Wizard tell them they will be punished if they refuse to obey the
commands of the Princess of all the Land of Oz."

Ozma shook her head, to indicate that the advice was not to her
satisfaction.

"If they refuse, what then?" she asked. "I should be obliged to carry
out my threat and punish them, and that would be an unpleasant and
difficult thing to do. I am sure it would be better for me to go
peacefully, without an army and armed only with my authority as Ruler,
and plead with them to obey me. Then, if they prove obstinate I could
resort to other means to win their obedience."

"It's a ticklish thing, anyhow you look at it," sighed Dorothy. "I'm
sorry now that I noticed the Record in the Great Book."

"But can't you realize, my dear, that I must do my duty, now that I am
aware of this trouble?" asked Ozma. "I am fully determined to go at
once to the Magic Isle of the Skeezers and to the enchanted mountain of
the Flatheads, and prevent war and strife between their inhabitants.
The only question to decide is whether it is better for me to go alone,
or to assemble a party of my friends and loyal supporters to accompany
me."

"If you go I want to go, too," declared Dorothy. "Whatever happens it's
going to be fun--'cause all excitement is fun--and I wouldn't miss it
for the world!"

Neither Ozma nor Glinda paid any attention to this statement, for they
were gravely considering the serious aspect of this proposed adventure.

"There are plenty of friends who would like to go with you," said the
Sorceress, "but none of them would afford your Majesty any protection
in case you were in danger. You are yourself the most powerful fairy in
Oz, although both I and the Wizard have more varied arts of magic at
our command. However, you have one art that no other in all the world
can equal--the art of winning hearts and making people love to bow to
your gracious presence. For that reason I believe you can accomplish
more good alone than with a large number of subjects in your train."

"I believe that also," agreed the Princess. "I shall be quite able to
take care of myself, you know, but might not be able to protect others
so well. I do not look for opposition, however. I shall speak to these
people in kindly words and settle their dispute--whatever it may be--in
a just manner."

"Aren't you going to take me?" pleaded Dorothy. "You'll need some
companion, Ozma."

The Princess smiled upon her little friend.

"I see no reason why you should not accompany me," was her reply. "Two
girls are not very warlike and they will not suspect us of being on any
errand but a kindly and peaceful one. But, in order to prevent war and
strife between these angry peoples, we must go to them at once. Let us
return immediately to the Emerald City and prepare to start on our
journey early tomorrow morning."

Glinda was not quite satisfied with this plan, but could not think of
any better way to meet the problem. She knew that Ozma, with all her
gentleness and sweet disposition, was accustomed to abide by any
decision she had made and could not easily be turned from her purpose.
Moreover she could see no great danger to the fairy Ruler of Oz in the
undertaking, even though the unknown people she was to visit proved
obstinate. But Dorothy was not a fairy; she was a little girl who had
come from Kansas to live in the Land of Oz. Dorothy might encounter
dangers that to Ozma would be as nothing but to an "Earth child" would
be very serious.

The very fact that Dorothy lived in Oz, and had been made a Princess by
her friend Ozma, prevented her from being killed or suffering any great
bodily pain as long as she lived in that fairyland. She could not grow
big, either, and would always remain the same little girl who had come
to Oz, unless in some way she left that fairyland or was spirited away
from it. But Dorothy was a mortal, nevertheless, and might possibly be
destroyed, or hidden where none of her friends could ever find her. She
could, for instance be cut into pieces, and the pieces, while still
alive and free from pain, could be widely scattered; or she might be
buried deep underground or "destroyed" in other ways by evil magicians,
were she not properly protected. These facts Glinda was considering
while she paced with stately tread her marble hall.

Finally the good Sorceress paused and drew a ring from her finger,
handing it to Dorothy.

"Wear this ring constantly until your return," she said to the girl.
"If serious danger threatens you, turn the ring around on your finger
once to the right and another turn to the left. That will ring the
alarm bell in my palace and I will at once come to your rescue. But do
not use the ring unless you are actually in danger of destruction.
While you remain with Princess Ozma I believe she will be able to
protect you from all lesser ills."

"Thank you, Glinda," responded Dorothy gratefully, as she placed the
ring on her finger. "I'm going to wear my Magic Belt which I took from
the Nome King, too, so I guess I'll be safe from anything the Skeezers
and Flatheads try to do to me."

Ozma had many arrangements to make before she could leave her throne
and her palace in the Emerald City, even for a trip of a few days, so
she bade goodbye to Glinda and with Dorothy climbed into the Red Wagon.
A word to the wooden Sawhorse started that astonishing creature on the
return journey, and so swiftly did he run that Dorothy was unable to
talk or do anything but hold tight to her seat all the way back to the
Emerald City.




Chapter Two

Ozma and Dorothy


Residing in Ozma's palace at this time was a live Scarecrow, a most
remarkable and intelligent creature who had once ruled the Land of Oz
for a brief period and was much loved and respected by all the people.
Once a Munchkin farmer had stuffed an old suit of clothes with straw
and put stuffed boots on the feet and used a pair of stuffed cotton
gloves for hands. The head of the Scarecrow was a stuffed sack fastened
to the body, with eyes, nose, mouth and ears painted on the sack. When
a hat had been put on the head, the thing was a good imitation of a
man. The farmer placed the Scarecrow on a pole in his cornfield and it
came to life in a curious manner. Dorothy, who was passing by the
field, was hailed by the live Scarecrow and lifted him off his pole. He
then went with her to the Emerald City, where the Wizard of Oz gave him
some excellent brains, and the Scarecrow soon became an important
personage.

Ozma considered the Scarecrow one of her best friends and most loyal
subjects, so the morning after her visit to Glinda she asked him to
take her place as Ruler of the Land of Oz while she was absent on a
journey, and the Scarecrow at once consented without asking any
questions.

Ozma had warned Dorothy to keep their journey a secret and say nothing
to anyone about the Skeezers and Flatheads until their return, and
Dorothy promised to obey. She longed to tell her girl friends, tiny
Trot and Betsy Bobbin, of the adventure they were undertaking, but
refrained from saying a word on the subject although both these girls
lived with her in Ozma's palace.

Indeed, only Glinda the Sorceress knew they were going, until after
they had gone, and even the Sorceress didn't know what their errand
might be.

Princess Ozma took the Sawhorse and the Red Wagon, although she was not
sure there was a wagon road all the way to the Lake of the Skeezers.
The Land of Oz is a pretty big place, surrounded on all sides by a
Deadly Desert which it is impossible to cross, and the Skeezer Country,
according to the map, was in the farthest northwestern part of Oz,
bordering on the north desert. As the Emerald City was exactly in the
center of Oz, it was no small journey from there to the Skeezers.

Around the Emerald City the country is thickly settled in every
direction, but the farther away you get from the city the fewer people
there are, until those parts that border on the desert have small
populations. Also those faraway sections are little known to the Oz
people, except in the south, where Glinda lives and where Dorothy has
often wandered on trips of exploration.

The least known of all is the Gillikin Country, which harbors many
strange bands of people among its mountains and valleys and forests and
streams, and Ozma was now bound for the most distant part of the
Gillikin Country.

"I am really sorry," said Ozma to Dorothy, as they rode away in the Red
Wagon, "not to know more about the wonderful Land I rule. It is my duty
to be acquainted with every tribe of people and every strange and
hidden country in all Oz, but I am kept so busy at my palace making
laws and planning for the comforts of those who live near the Emerald
City, that I do not often find time to make long journeys."

"Well," replied Dorothy, "we'll prob'bly find out a lot on this trip,
and we'll learn all about the Skeezers and Flatheads, anyhow. Time
doesn't make much diff'rence in the Land of Oz, 'cause we don't grow
up, or get old, or become sick and die, as they do other places; so, if
we explore one place at a time, we'll by-an'-by know all about every
nook and corner in Oz."

Dorothy wore around her waist the Nome King's Magic Belt, which
protected her from harm, and the Magic Ring which Glinda had given her
was on her finger. Ozma had merely slipped a small silver wand into the
bosom of her gown, for fairies do not use chemicals and herbs and the
tools of wizards and sorcerers to perform their magic. The Silver Wand
was Ozma's one weapon of offense and defense and by its use she could
accomplish many things.

They had left the Emerald City just at sunrise and the Sawhorse
traveled very swiftly over the roads towards the north, but in a few
hours the wooden animal had to slacken his pace because the farm houses
had become few and far between and often there were no paths at all in
the direction they wished to follow. At such times they crossed the
fields, avoiding groups of trees and fording the streams and rivulets
whenever they came to them. But finally they reached a broad hillside
closely covered with scrubby brush, through which the wagon could not
pass.

"It will be difficult even for you and me to get through without
tearing our dresses," said Ozma, "so we must leave the Sawhorse and the
Wagon here until our return."

"That's all right," Dorothy replied, "I'm tired riding, anyhow. Do you
s'pose, Ozma, we're anywhere near the Skeezer Country?"

"I cannot tell, Dorothy dear, but I know we've been going in the right
direction, so we are sure to find it in time."

The scrubby brush was almost like a grove of small trees, for it
reached as high as the heads of the two girls, neither of whom was very
tall. They were obliged to thread their way in and out, until Dorothy
was afraid they would get lost, and finally they were halted by a
curious thing that barred their further progress. It was a huge web--as
if woven by gigantic spiders--and the delicate, lacy film was fastened
stoutly to the branches of the bushes and continued to the right and
left in the form of a half circle. The threads of this web were of a
brilliant purple color and woven into numerous artistic patterns, but
it reached from the ground to branches above the heads of the girls and
formed a sort of fence that hedged them in.

"It doesn't look very strong, though," said Dorothy. "I wonder if we
couldn't break through." She tried but found the web stronger than it
seemed. All her efforts could not break a single thread.

"We must go back, I think, and try to get around this peculiar web,"
Ozma decided.

So they turned to the right and, following the web found that it seemed
to spread in a regular circle. On and on they went until finally Ozma
said they had returned to the exact spot from which they had started.
"Here is a handkerchief you dropped when we were here before," she said
to Dorothy.

"In that case, they must have built the web behind us, after we walked
into the trap," exclaimed the little girl.

"True," agreed Ozma, "an enemy has tried to imprison us."

"And they did it, too," said Dorothy. "I wonder who it was."

"It's a spider-web, I'm quite sure," returned Ozma, "but it must be the
work of enormous spiders."

"Quite right!" cried a voice behind them. Turning quickly around they
beheld a huge purple spider sitting not two yards away and regarding
them with its small bright eyes.

Then there crawled from the bushes a dozen more great purple spiders,
which saluted the first one and said:

"The web is finished, O King, and the strangers are our prisoners."

Dorothy did not like the looks of these spiders at all. They had big
heads, sharp claws, small eyes and fuzzy hair all over their purple
bodies.

"They look wicked," she whispered to Ozma. "What shall we do?"

Ozma gazed upon the spiders with a serious face.

"What is your object in making us prisoners?" she inquired.

"We need someone to keep house for us," answered the Spider King.
"There is sweeping and dusting to be done, and polishing and washing of
dishes, and that is work my people dislike to do. So we decided that if
any strangers came our way we would capture them and make them our
servants."

"I am Princess Ozma, Ruler of all Oz," said the girl with dignity.

"Well, I am King of all Spiders," was the reply, "and that makes me
your master. Come with me to my palace and I will instruct you in your
work."

"I won't," said Dorothy indignantly. "We won't have anything to do with
you."

"We'll see about that," returned the Spider in a severe tone, and the
next instant he made a dive straight at Dorothy, opening the claws in
his legs as if to grab and pinch her with the sharp points. But the
girl was wearing her Magic Belt and was not harmed. The Spider King
could not even touch her. He turned swiftly and made a dash at Ozma,
but she held her Magic Wand over his head and the monster recoiled as
if it had been struck.

"You'd better let us go," Dorothy advised him, "for you see you can't
hurt us."

"So I see," returned the Spider King angrily. "Your magic is greater
than mine. But I'll not help you to escape. If you can break the magic
web my people have woven you may go; if not you must stay here and
starve." With that the Spider King uttered a peculiar whistle and all
the spiders disappeared.

"There is more magic in my fairyland than I dreamed of," remarked the
beautiful Ozma, with a sigh of regret. "It seems that my laws have not
been obeyed, for even these monstrous spiders defy me by means of
Magic."

"Never mind that now," said Dorothy; "let's see what we can do to get
out of this trap."

They now examined the web with great care and were amazed at its
strength. Although finer than the finest silken hairs, it resisted all
their efforts to work through, even though both girls threw all their
weight against it.

"We must find some instrument which will cut the threads of the web,"
said Ozma, finally. "Let us look about for such a tool."

So they wandered among the bushes and finally came to a shallow pool of
water, formed by a small bubbling spring. Dorothy stooped to get a
drink and discovered in the water a green crab, about as big as her
hand. The crab had two big, sharp claws, and as soon as Dorothy saw
them she had an idea that those claws could save them.

"Come out of the water," she called to the crab; "I want to talk to
you."

Rather lazily the crab rose to the surface and caught hold of a bit of
rock. With his head above the water he said in a cross voice:

"What do you want?"

"We want you to cut the web of the purple spiders with your claws, so
we can get through it," answered Dorothy. "You can do that, can't you?"

"I suppose so," replied the crab. "But if I do what will you give me?"

"What do you wish?" Ozma inquired.

"I wish to be white, instead of green," said the crab. "Green crabs are
very common, and white ones are rare; besides the purple spiders, which
infest this hillside, are afraid of white crabs. Could you make me
white if I should agree to cut the web for you?"

"Yes," said Ozma, "I can do that easily. And, so you may know I am
speaking the truth, I will change your color now."

She waved her silver wand over the pool and the crab instantly became
snow-white--all except his eyes, which remained black. The creature saw
his reflection in the water and was so delighted that he at once
climbed out of the pool and began moving slowly toward the web, by
backing away from the pool. He moved so very slowly that Dorothy cried
out impatiently: "Dear me, this will never do!" Caching the crab in her
hands she ran with him to the web.

She had to hold him up even then, so he could reach with his claws
strand after strand of the filmy purple web, which he was able to sever
with one nip.

When enough of the web had been cut to allow them to pass, Dorothy ran
back to the pool and placed the white crab in the water, after which
she rejoined Ozma. They were just in time to escape through the web,
for several of the purple spiders now appeared, having discovered that
their web had been cut, and had the girls not rushed through the
opening the spiders would have quickly repaired the cuts and again
imprisoned them.

Ozma and Dorothy ran as fast as they could and although the angry
spiders threw a number of strands of web after them, hoping to lasso
them or entangle them in the coils, they managed to escape and clamber
to the top of the hill.




Chapter Three

The Mist Maidens


From the top of the hill Ozma and Dorothy looked down into the valley
beyond and were surprised to find it filled with a floating mist that
was as dense as smoke. Nothing in the valley was visible except these
rolling waves of mist, but beyond, on the other side, rose a grassy
hill that appeared quite beautiful.

"Well," said Dorothy, "what are we to do, Ozma? Walk down into that
thick fog, an' prob'bly get lost in it, or wait till it clears away?"

"I'm not sure it will clear away, however long we wait," replied Ozma,
doubtfully. "If we wish to get on, I think we must venture into the
mist."

"But we can't see where we're going, or what we're stepping on,"
protested Dorothy.  "There may be dreadful things mixed up in that fog,
an' I'm scared just to think of wading into it."

Even Ozma seemed to hesitate. She was silent and thoughtful for a
little while, looking at the rolling drifts that were so gray and
forbidding. Finally she said:

"I believe this is a Mist Valley, where these moist clouds always
remain, for even the sunshine above does not drive them away. Therefore
the Mist Maids must live here, and they are fairies and should answer
my call."

She placed her two hands before her mouth, forming a hollow with them,
and uttered a clear, thrilling, bird-like cry. It floated far out over
the mist waves and presently was answered by a similar sound, as of a
far-off echo.

Dorothy was much impressed. She had seen many strange things since
coming to this fairy country, but here was a new experience. At
ordinary times Ozma was just like any little girl one might chance to
meet--simple, merry, lovable as could be--yet with a certain reserve
that lent her dignity in her most joyous moods. There were times,
however, when seated on her throne and commanding her subjects, or when
her fairy powers were called into use, when Dorothy and all others
about her stood in awe of their lovely girl Ruler and realized her
superiority.

Ozma waited. Presently out from the billows rose beautiful forms,
clothed in fleecy, trailing garments of gray that could scarcely be
distinguished from the mist. Their hair was mist-color, too; only their
gleaming arms and sweet, pallid faces proved they were living,
intelligent creatures answering the call of a sister fairy.

Like sea nymphs they rested on the bosom of the clouds, their eyes
turned questioningly upon the two girls who stood upon the bank. One
came quite near and to her Ozma said:

"Will you please take us to the opposite hillside? We are afraid to
venture into the mist. I am Princess Ozma of Oz, and this is my friend
Dorothy, a Princess of Oz."

The Mist Maids came nearer, holding out their arms. Without hesitation
Ozma advanced and allowed them to embrace her and Dorothy plucked up
courage to follow. Very gently the Mist Maids held them. Dorothy
thought the arms were cold and misty--they didn't seem real at all--yet
they supported the two girls above the surface of the billows and
floated with them so swiftly to the green hillside opposite that the
girls were astonished to find themselves set upon the grass before they
realized they had fairly started.

"Thank you!" said Ozma gratefully, and Dorothy also added her thanks
for the service.

The Mist Maids made no answer, but they smiled and waved their hands in
good-bye as again they floated out into the mist and disappeared from
view.




Chapter Four

The Magic Tent


"Well," said Dorothy with a laugh, "that was easier than I expected.
It's worth while, sometimes, to be a real fairy. But I wouldn't like to
be that kind, and live in a dreadful fog all the time."

They now climbed the bank and found before them a delightful plain that
spread for miles in all directions. Fragrant wild flowers were
scattered throughout the grass; there were bushes bearing lovely
blossoms and luscious fruits; now and then a group of stately trees
added to the beauty of the landscape. But there were no dwellings or
signs of life.

The farther side of the plain was bordered by a row of palms, and just
in front of the palms rose a queerly shaped hill that towered above the
plain like a mountain. The sides of this hill were straight up and
down; it was oblong in shape and the top seemed flat and level.

"Oh, ho!" cried Dorothy; "I'll bet that's the mountain Glinda told us
of, where the Flatheads live."

"If it is," replied Ozma, "the Lake of the Skeezers must be just beyond
the line of palm trees. Can you walk that far, Dorothy?"

"Of course, in time," was the prompt answer. "I'm sorry we had to leave
the Sawhorse and the Red Wagon behind us, for they'd come in handy just
now; but with the end of our journey in sight a tramp across these
pretty green fields won't tire us a bit."

It was a longer tramp than they suspected, however, and night overtook
them before they could reach the flat mountain. So Ozma proposed they
camp for the night and Dorothy was quite ready to approve. She didn't
like to admit to her friend she was tired, but she told herself that
her legs "had prickers in 'em," meaning they had begun to ache.

Usually when Dorothy started on a journey of exploration or adventure,
she carried with her a basket of food, and other things that a traveler
in a strange country might require, but to go away with Ozma was quite
a different thing, as experience had taught her. The fairy Ruler of Oz
only needed her silver wand--tipped at one end with a great sparkling
emerald--to provide through its magic all that they might need.
Therefore Ozma, having halted with her companion and selected a smooth,
grassy spot on the plain, waved her wand in graceful curves and chanted
some mystic words in her sweet voice, and in an instant a handsome tent
appeared before them. The canvas was striped purple and white, and from
the center pole fluttered the royal banner of Oz.

"Come, dear," said Ozma, taking Dorothy's hand, "I am hungry and I'm
sure you must be also; so let us go in and have our feast."

On entering the tent they found a table set for two, with snowy linen,
bright silver and sparkling glassware, a vase of roses in the center
and many dishes of delicious food, some smoking hot, waiting to satisfy
their hunger. Also, on either side of the tent were beds, with satin
sheets, warm blankets and pillows filled with swansdown. There were
chairs, too, and tall lamps that lighted the interior of the tent with
a soft, rosy glow.

Dorothy, resting herself at her fairy friend's command, and eating her
dinner with unusual enjoyment, thought of the wonders of magic. If one
were a fairy and knew the secret laws of nature and the mystic words
and ceremonies that commanded those laws, then a simple wave of a
silver wand would produce instantly all that men work hard and
anxiously for through weary years. And Dorothy wished in her kindly,
innocent heart, that all men and women could be fairies with silver
wands, and satisfy all their needs without so much work and worry, for
then, she imagined, they would have all their working hours to be happy
in. But Ozma, looking into her friend's face and reading those
thoughts, gave a laugh and said:

"No, no, Dorothy, that wouldn't do at all. Instead of happiness your
plan would bring weariness to the world. If every one could wave a wand
and have his wants fulfilled there would be little to wish for. There
would be no eager striving to obtain the difficult, for nothing would
then be difficult, and the pleasure of earning something longed for,
and only to be secured by hard work and careful thought, would be
utterly lost. There would be nothing to do you see, and no interest in
life and in our fellow creatures. That is all that makes life worth our
while--to do good deeds and to help those less fortunate than
ourselves."

"Well, you're a fairy, Ozma. Aren't you happy?" asked Dorothy.

"Yes, dear, because I can use my fairy powers to make others happy. Had
I no kingdom to rule, and no subjects to look after, I would be
miserable. Also, you must realize that while I am a more powerful fairy
than any other inhabitant of Oz, I am not as powerful as Glinda the
Sorceress, who has studied many arts of magic that I know nothing of.
Even the little Wizard of Oz can do some things I am unable to
accomplish, while I can accomplish things unknown to the Wizard. This
is to explain that I'm not all-powerful, by any means. My magic is
simply fairy magic, and not sorcery or wizardry."

"All the same," said Dorothy, "I'm mighty glad you could make this tent
appear, with our dinners and beds all ready for us."

Ozma smiled.

"Yes, it is indeed wonderful," she agreed. "Not all fairies know that
sort of magic, but some fairies can do magic that fills me with
astonishment. I think that is what makes us modest and unassuming--the
fact that our magic arts are divided, some being given each of us. I'm
glad I don't know everything, Dorothy, and that there still are things
in both nature and in wit for me to marvel at."

Dorothy couldn't quite understand this, so she said nothing more on the
subject and presently had a new reason to marvel. For when they had
quite finished their meal table and contents disappeared in a flash.

"No dishes to wash, Ozma!" she said with a laugh. "I guess you'd make a
lot of folks happy if you could teach 'em just that one trick."

For an hour Ozma told stories, and talked with Dorothy about various
people in whom they were interested. And then it was bedtime, and they
undressed and crept into their soft beds and fell asleep almost as soon
as their heads touched their pillows.




Chapter Five

The Magic Stairway


The flat mountain looked much nearer in the clear light of the morning
sun, but Dorothy and Ozma knew there was a long tramp before them, even
yet. They finished dressing only to find a warm, delicious breakfast
awaiting them, and having eaten they left the tent and started toward
the mountain which was their first goal. After going a little way
Dorothy looked back and found that the fairy tent had entirely
disappeared. She was not surprised, for she knew this would happen.

"Can't your magic give us a horse an' wagon, or an automobile?"
inquired Dorothy.

"No, dear; I'm sorry that such magic is beyond my power," confessed her
fairy friend.

"Perhaps Glinda could," said Dorothy thoughtfully.

"Glinda has a stork chariot that carries her through the air," said
Ozma, "but even our great Sorceress cannot conjure up other modes of
travel. Don't forget what I told you last night, that no one is
powerful enough to do everything."

"Well, I s'pose I ought to know that, having lived so long in the Land
of Oz," replied Dorothy; "but I can't do any magic at all, an' so I
can't figure out e'zactly how you an' Glinda an' the Wizard do it."

"Don't try," laughed Ozma. "But you have at least one magical art,
Dorothy: you know the trick of winning all hearts."

"No, I don't," said Dorothy earnestly. "If I really can do it, Ozma, I
am sure I don't know how I do it."

It took them a good two hours to reach the foot of the round, flat
mountain, and then they found the sides so steep that they were like
the wall of a house.

"Even my purple kitten couldn't climb 'em," remarked Dorothy, gazing
upward.

"But there is some way for the Flatheads to get down and up again,"
declared Ozma; "otherwise they couldn't make war with the Skeezers, or
even meet them and quarrel with them."

"That's so, Ozma. Let's walk around a ways; perhaps we'll find a ladder
or something."

They walked quite a distance, for it was a big mountain, and as they
circled around it and came to the side that faced the palm trees, they
suddenly discovered an entrance way cut out of the rock wall. This
entrance was arched overhead and not very deep because it merely led to
a short flight of stone stairs.

"Oh, we've found a way to the top at last," announced Ozma, and the two
girls turned and walked straight toward the entrance. Suddenly they
bumped against something and stood still, unable to proceed farther.

"Dear me!" exclaimed Dorothy, rubbing her nose, which had struck
something hard, although she could not see what it was; "this isn't as
easy as it looks. What has stopped us, Ozma? Is it magic of some sort?"

Ozma was feeling around, her bands outstretched before her.

"Yes, dear, it is magic," she replied. "The Flatheads had to have a way
from their mountain top from the plain below, but to prevent enemies
from rushing up the stairs to conquer them, they have built, at a small
distance before the entrance a wall of solid stone, the stones being
held in place by cement, and then they made the wall invisible."

"I wonder why they did that?" mused Dorothy. "A wall would keep folks
out anyhow, whether it could be seen or not, so there wasn't any use
making it invisible. Seems to me it would have been better to have left
it solid, for then no one would have seen the entrance behind it. Now
anybody can see the entrance, as we did. And prob'bly anybody that
tries to go up the stairs gets bumped, as we did."

Ozma made no reply at once. Her face was grave and thoughtful.

"I think I know the reason for making the wall invisible," she said
after a while. "The Flatheads use the stairs for coming down and going
up. If there was a solid stone wall to keep them from reaching the
plain they would themselves be imprisoned by the wall. So they had to
leave some place to get around the wall, and, if the wall was visible,
all strangers or enemies would find the place to go around it and then
the wall would be useless. So the Flatheads cunningly made their wall
invisible, believing that everyone who saw the entrance to the mountain
would walk straight toward it, as we did, and find it impossible to go
any farther. I suppose the wall is really high and thick, and can't be
broken through, so those who find it in their way are obliged to go
away again."

"Well," said Dorothy, "if there's a way around the wall, where is it?"

"We must find it," returned Ozma, and began feeling her way along the
wall. Dorothy followed and began to get discouraged when Ozma had
walked nearly a quarter of a mile away from the entrance. But now the
invisible wall curved in toward the side of the mountain and suddenly
ended, leaving just space enough between the wall and the mountain for
an ordinary person to pass through.

The girls went in, single file, and Ozma explained that they were now
behind the barrier and could go back to the entrance. They met no
further obstructions.

"Most people, Ozma, wouldn't have figured this thing out the way you
did," remarked Dorothy. "If I'd been alone the invisible wall surely
would have stumped me."

Reaching the entrance they began to mount the stone stairs. They went
up ten stairs and then down five stairs, following a passage cut from
the rock. The stairs were just wide enough for the two girls to walk
abreast, arm in arm. At the bottom of the five stairs the passage
turned to the right, and they ascended ten more stairs, only to find at
the top of the flight five stairs leading straight down again. Again
the passage turned abruptly, this time to the left, and ten more stairs
led upward.

The passage was now quite dark, for they were in the heart of the
mountain and all daylight had been shut out by the turns of the
passage. However, Ozma drew her silver wand from her bosom and the
great jewel at its end gave out a lustrous, green-tinted light which
lighted the place well enough for them to see their way plainly.

Ten steps up, five steps down, and a turn, this way or that. That was
the program, and Dorothy figured that they were only gaining five
stairs upward each trip that they made.

"Those Flatheads must be funny people," she said to Ozma. "They don't
seem to do anything in a bold straightforward manner. In making this
passage they forced everyone to walk three times as far as is
necessary. And of course this trip is just as tiresome to the Flatheads
as it is to other folks."

"That is true," answered Ozma; "yet it is a clever arrangement to
prevent their being surprised by intruders. Every time we reach the
tenth step of a flight, the pressure of our feet on the stone makes a
bell ring on top of the mountain, to warn the Flatheads of our coming."

"How do you know that?" demanded Dorothy, astonished.

"I've heard the bell ever since we started," Ozma told her. "You could
not hear it, I know, but when I am holding my wand in my hand I can
hear sounds a great distance off."

"Do you hear anything on top of the mountain 'cept the bell?" inquired
Dorothy.

"Yes. The people are calling to one another in alarm and many footsteps
are approaching the place where we will reach the flat top of the
mountain."

This made Dorothy feel somewhat anxious. "I'd thought we were going to
visit just common, ordinary people," she remarked, "but they're pretty
clever, it seems, and they know some kinds of magic, too. They may be
dangerous, Ozma. P'raps we'd better stayed at home."

Finally the upstairs-and-downstairs passage seemed coming to an end,
for daylight again appeared ahead of the two girls and Ozma replaced
her wand in the bosom of her gown. The last ten steps brought them to
the surface, where they found themselves surrounded by such a throng of
queer people that for a time they halted, speechless, and stared into
the faces that confronted them.

Dorothy knew at once why these mountain people were called Flatheads.
Their heads were really flat on top, as if they had been cut off just
above the eyes and ears. Also the heads were bald, with no hair on top
at all, and the ears were big and stuck straight out, and the noses
were small and stubby, while the mouths of the Flatheads were well
shaped and not unusual. Their eyes were perhaps their best feature,
being large and bright and a deep violet in color.

The costumes of the Flatheads were all made of metals dug from their
mountain. Small gold, silver, tin and iron discs, about the size of
pennies, and very thin, were cleverly wired together and made to form
knee trousers and jackets for the men and skirts and waists for the
women. The colored metals were skillfully mixed to form stripes and
checks of various sorts, so that the costumes were quite gorgeous and
reminded Dorothy of pictures she had seen of Knights of old clothed
armor.

Aside from their flat heads, these people were not really bad looking.
The men were armed with bows and arrows and had small axes of steel
stuck in their metal belts. They wore no hats nor ornaments.




Chapter Six

Flathead Mountain


When they saw that the intruders on their mountain were only two little
girls, the Flatheads grunted with satisfaction and drew back,
permitting them to see what the mountain top looked like. It was shaped
like a saucer, so that the houses and other buildings--all made of
rocks--could not be seen over the edge by anyone standing in the plain
below.

But now a big fat Flathead stood before the girls and in a gruff voice
demanded:

"What are you doing here? Have the Skeezers sent you to spy upon us?"

"I am Princess Ozma, Ruler of all the Land of Oz."

"Well, I've never heard of the Land of Oz, so you may be what you
claim," returned the Flathead.

"This is the Land of Oz--part of it, anyway," exclaimed Dorothy. "So
Princess Ozma rules you Flathead people, as well as all the other
people in Oz."

The man laughed, and all the others who stood around laughed, too. Some
one in the crowd called:

"She'd better not tell the Supreme Dictator about ruling the Flatheads.
Eh, friends?"

"No, indeed!" they all answered in positive tones.

"Who is your Supreme Dictator?" answered Ozma.

"I think I'll let him tell you that himself," answered the man who had
first spoken. "You have broken our laws by coming here; and whoever you
are the Supreme Dictator must fix your punishment. Come along with me."

He started down a path and Ozma and Dorothy followed him without
protest, as they wanted to see the most important person in this queer
country. The houses they passed seemed pleasant enough and each had a
little yard in which were flowers and vegetables. Walls of rock
separated the dwellings, and all the paths were paved with smooth slabs
of rock. This seemed their only building material and they utilized it
cleverly for every purpose.

Directly in the center of the great saucer stood a larger building
which the Flathead informed the girls was the palace of the Supreme
Dictator. He led them through an entrance hall into a big reception
room, where they sat upon stone benches and awaited the coming of the
Dictator. Pretty soon he entered from another room--a rather lean and
rather old Flathead, dressed much like the others of this strange race,
and only distinguished from them by the sly and cunning expression of
his face. He kept his eyes half closed and looked through the slits of
them at Ozma and Dorothy, who rose to receive him.

"Are you the Supreme Dictator of the Flatheads?" inquired Ozma.

"Yes, that's me," he said, rubbing his hands slowly together. "My word
is law. I'm the head of the Flatheads on this flat headland."

"I am Princess Ozma of Oz, and I have come from the Emerald City to--"

"Stop a minute," interrupted the Dictator, and turned to the man who
had brought the girls there. "Go away, Dictator Felo Flathead!" he
commanded. "Return to your duty and guard the Stairway. I will look
after these strangers." The man bowed and departed, and Dorothy asked
wonderingly:

"Is he a Dictator, too?"

"Of course," was the answer. "Everybody here is a dictator of something
or other. They're all office holders. That's what keeps them contented.
But I'm the Supreme Dictator of all, and I'm elected once a year. This
is a democracy, you know, where the people are allowed to vote for
their rulers. A good many others would like to be Supreme Dictator, but
as I made a law that I am always to count the votes myself, I am always
elected."

"What is your name?" asked Ozma.

"I am called the Su-dic, which is short for Supreme Dictator. I sent
that man away because the moment you mentioned Ozma of Oz, and the
Emerald City, I knew who you are. I suppose I'm the only Flathead that
ever heard of you, but that's because I have more brains than the rest."

Dorothy was staring hard at the Su-dic.

"I don't see how you can have any brains at all," she remarked,
"because the part of your head is gone where brains are kept."

"I don't blame you for thinking that," he said. "Once the Flatheads had
no brains because, as you say, there is no upper part to their heads,
to hold brains. But long, long ago a band of fairies flew over this
country and made it all a fairyland, and when they came to the
Flatheads the fairies were sorry to find them all very stupid and quite
unable to think. So, as there was no good place in their bodies in
which to put brains the Fairy Queen gave each one of us a nice can of
brains to carry in his pocket and that made us just as intelligent as
other people. See," he continued, "here is one of the cans of brains
the fairies gave us." He took from a pocket a bright tin can having a
pretty red label on it which said: "Concentrated Brains, Extra Quality."

"And does every Flathead have the same kind of brains?" asked Dorothy.

"Yes, they're all alike. Here's another can." From another pocket he
produced a second can of brains.

"Did the fairies give you a double supply?" inquired Dorothy.

"No, but one of the Flatheads thought he wanted to be the Su-dic and
tried to get my people to rebel against me, so I punished him by taking
away his brains. One day my wife scolded me severely, so I took away
her can of brains. She didn't like that and went out and robbed several
women of their brains. Then I made a law that if anyone stole another's
brains, or even tried to borrow them, he would forfeit his own brains
to the Su-dic. So each one is content with his own canned brains and my
wife and I are the only ones on the mountain with more than one can. I
have three cans and that makes me very clever--so clever that I'm a
good Sorcerer, if I do say it myself. My poor wife had four cans of
brains and became a remarkable witch, but alas! that was before those
terrible enemies, the Skeezers, transformed her into a Golden Pig."

"Good gracious!" cried Dorothy; "is your wife really a Golden Pig?"

"She is. The Skeezers did it and so I have declared war on them. In
revenge for making my wife a Pig I intend to ruin their Magic Island
and make the Skeezers the slaves of the Flatheads!"

The Su-dic was very angry now; his eyes flashed and his face took on a
wicked and fierce expression. But Ozma said to him, very sweetly and in
a friendly voice:

"I am sorry to hear this. Will you please tell me more about your
troubles with the Skeezers?  Then perhaps I can help you."

She was only a girl, but there was dignity in her pose and speech which
impressed the Su-dic.

"If you are really Princess Ozma of Oz," the Flathead said, "you are
one of that band of fairies who, under Queen Lurline, made all Oz a
Fairyland. I have heard that Lurline left one of her own fairies to
rule Oz, and gave the fairy the name of Ozma."

"If you knew this why did you not come to me at the Emerald City and
tender me your loyalty and obedience?" asked the Ruler of Oz.

"Well, I only learned the fact lately, and I've been too busy to leave
home," he explained, looking at the floor instead of into Ozma's eyes.
She knew he had spoken a falsehood, but only said:

"Why did you quarrel with the Skeezers?"

"It was this way," began the Su-dic, glad to change the subject. "We
Flatheads love fish, and as we have no fish on this mountain we would
sometimes go to the Lake of the Skeezers to catch fish. This made the
Skeezers angry, for they declared the fish in their lake belonged to
them and were under their protection and they forbade us to catch them.
That was very mean and unfriendly in the Skeezers, you must admit, and
when we paid no attention to their orders they set a guard on the shore
of the lake to prevent our fishing.

"Now, my wife, Rora Flathead, having four cans of brains, had become a
wonderful witch, and fish being brain food, she loved to eat fish
better than any one of us. So she vowed she would destroy every fish in
the lake, unless the Skeezers let us catch what we wanted. They defied
us, so Rora prepared a kettleful of magic poison and went down to the
lake one night to dump it all in the water and poison the fish. It was
a clever idea, quite worthy of my dear wife, but the Skeezer Queen--a
young lady named Coo-ee-oh--hid on the bank of the lake and taking Rora
unawares, transformed her into a Golden Pig. The poison was spilled on
the ground and wicked Queen Coo-ee-oh, not content with her cruel
transformation, even took away my wife's four cans of brains, so she is
now a common grunting pig without even brains enough to know her own
name."

"Then," said Ozma thoughtfully, "the Queen of the Skeezers must be a
Sorceress."

"Yes," said the Su-dic, "but she doesn't know much magic, after all.
She is not as powerful as Rora Flathead was, nor half as powerful as I
am now, as Queen Coo-ee-oh will discover when we fight our great battle
and destroy her."

"The Golden Pig can't be a witch any more, of course," observed Dorothy.

"No; even had Queen Coo-ee-oh left her the four cans of brains, poor
Rora, in a pig's shape, couldn't do any witchcraft. A witch has to use
her fingers, and a pig has only cloven hoofs."

"It seems a sad story," was Ozma's comment, "and all the trouble arose
because the Flatheads wanted fish that did not belong to them."

"As for that," said the Su-dic, again angry, "I made a law that any of
my people could catch fish in the Lake of the Skeezers, whenever they
wanted to. So the trouble was through the Skeezers defying my law."

"You can only make laws to govern your own people," asserted Ozma
sternly. "I, alone, am empowered to make laws that must be obeyed by
all the peoples of Oz."

"Pooh!" cried the Su-dic scornfully. "You can't make me obey your laws,
I assure you. I know the extent of your powers, Princess Ozma of Oz,
and I know that I am more powerful than you are. To prove it I shall
keep you and your companion prisoners in this mountain until after we
have fought and conquered the Skeezers. Then, if you promise to be
good, I may let you go home again."

Dorothy was amazed by this effrontery and defiance of the beautiful
girl Ruler of Oz, whom all until now had obeyed without question. But
Ozma, still unruffled and dignified, looked at the Su-dic and said:

"You did not mean that. You are angry and speak unwisely, without
reflection. I came here from my palace in the Emerald City to prevent
war and to make peace between you and the Skeezers. I do not approve of
Queen Coo-ee-oh's action in transforming your wife Rora into a pig, nor
do I approve of Rora's cruel attempt to poison the fishes in the lake.
No one has the right to work magic in my dominions without my consent,
so the Flatheads and the Skeezers have both broken my laws--which must
be obeyed."

"If you want to make peace," said the Su-dic, "make the Skeezers
restore my wife to her proper form and give back her four cans of
brains. Also make them agree to allow us to catch fish in their lake."

"No," returned Ozma, "I will not do that, for it would be unjust. I
will have the Golden Pig again transformed into your wife Rora, and
give her one can of brains, but the other three cans must be restored
to those she robbed. Neither may you catch fish in the Lake of the
Skeezers, for it is their lake and the fish belong to them. This
arrangement is just and honorable, and you must agree to it."

"Never!" cried the Su-dic. Just then a pig came running into the room,
uttering dismal grunts. It was made of solid gold, with joints at the
bends of the legs and in the neck and jaws. The Golden Pig's eyes were
rubies, and its teeth were polished ivory.

"There!" said the Su-dic, "gaze on the evil work of Queen Coo-ee-oh,
and then say if you can prevent my making war on the Skeezers. That
grunting beast was once my wife--the most beautiful Flathead on our
mountain and a skillful witch. Now look at her!"

"Fight the Skeezers, fight the Skeezers, fight the Skeezers!" grunted
the Golden Pig.

"I will fight the Skeezers," exclaimed the Flathead chief, "and if a
dozen Ozmas of Oz forbade me I would fight just the same."

"Not if I can prevent it!" asserted Ozma.

"You can't prevent it. But since you threaten me, I'll have you
confined in the bronze prison until the war is over," said the Su-dic.
He whistled and four stout Flatheads, armed with axes and spears,
entered the room and saluted him. Turning to the men he said: "Take
these two girls, bind them with wire ropes and cast them into the
bronze prison."

The four men bowed low and one of them asked:

"Where are the two girls, most noble Su-dic?"

The Su-dic turned to where Ozma and Dorothy had stood but they had
vanished!




Chapter Seven

The Magic Isle


Ozma, seeing it was useless to argue with the Supreme Dictator of the
Flatheads, had been considering how best to escape from his power. She
realized that his sorcery might be difficult to overcome, and when he
threatened to cast Dorothy and her into a bronze prison she slipped her
hand into her bosom and grasped her silver wand. With the other hand
she grasped the hand of Dorothy, but these motions were so natural that
the Su-dic did not notice them. Then when he turned to meet his four
soldiers, Ozma instantly rendered both herself and Dorothy invisible
and swiftly led her companion around the group of Flatheads and out of
the room. As they reached the entry and descended the stone steps, Ozma
whispered:

"Let us run, dear! We are invisible, so no one will see us."

Dorothy understood and she was a good runner. Ozma had marked the place
where the grand stairway that led to the plain was located, so they
made directly for it. Some people were in the paths but these they
dodged around. One or two Flatheads heard the pattering of footsteps of
the girls on the stone pavement and stopped with bewildered looks to
gaze around them, but no one interfered with the invisible fugitives.

The Su-dic had lost no time in starting the chase. He and his men ran
so fast that they might have overtaken the girls before they reached
the stairway had not the Golden Pig suddenly run across their path. The
Su-dic tripped over the pig and fell flat, and his four men tripped
over him and tumbled in a heap. Before they could scramble up and reach
the mouth of the passage it was too late to stop the two girls.

There was a guard on each side of the stairway, but of course they did
not see Ozma and Dorothy as they sped past and descended the steps.
Then they had to go up five steps and down another ten, and so on, in
the same manner in which they had climbed to the top of the mountain.
Ozma lighted their way with her wand and they kept on without relaxing
their speed until they reached the bottom. Then they ran to the right
and turned the corner of the invisible wall just as the Su-dic and his
followers rushed out of the arched entrance and looked around in an
attempt to discover the fugitives.

Ozma now knew they were safe, so she told Dorothy to stop and both of
them sat down on the grass until they could breathe freely and become
rested from their mad flight.

As for the Su-dic, he realized he was foiled and soon turned and
climbed his stairs again. He was very angry--angry with Ozma and angry
with himself--because, now that he took time to think, he remembered
that he knew very well the art of making people invisible, and visible
again, and if he had only thought of it in time he could have used his
magic knowledge to make the girls visible and so have captured them
easily. However, it was now too late for regrets and he determined to
make preparations at once to march all his forces against the Skeezers.

"What shall we do next?" asked Dorothy, when they were rested.

"Let us find the Lake of the Skeezers," replied Ozma. "From what that
dreadful Su-dic said I imagine the Skeezers are good people and worthy
of our friendship, and if we go to them we may help them to defeat the
Flatheads."

"I s'pose we can't stop the war now," remarked Dorothy reflectively, as
they walked toward the row of palm trees.

"No; the Su-dic is determined to fight the Skeezers, so all we can do
is to warn them of their danger and help them as much as possible."

"Of course you'll punish the Flatheads," said Dorothy.

"Well, I do not think the Flathead people are as much to blame as their
Supreme Dictator," was the answer. "If he is removed from power and his
unlawful magic taken from him, the people will probably be good and
respect the laws of the Land of Oz, and live at peace with all their
neighbors in the future."

"I hope so," said Dorothy with a sigh of doubt

The palms were not far from the mountain and the girls reached them
after a brisk walk. The huge trees were set close together, in three
rows, and had been planted so as to keep people from passing them, but
the Flatheads had cut a passage through this barrier and Ozma found the
path and led Dorothy to the other side.

Beyond the palms they discovered a very beautiful scene. Bordered by a
green lawn was a great lake fully a mile from shore to shore, the
waters of which were exquisitely blue and sparkling, with little
wavelets breaking its smooth surface where the breezes touched it. In
the center of this lake appeared a lovely island, not of great extent
but almost entirely covered by a huge round building with glass walls
and a high glass dome which glittered brilliantly in the sunshine.
Between the glass building and the edge of the island was no grass,
flowers or shrubbery, but only an expanse of highly polished white
marble. There were no boats on either shore and no signs of life could
be seen anywhere on the island.

"Well," said Dorothy, gazing wistfully at the island, "we've found the
Lake of the Skeezers and their Magic Isle. I guess the Skeezers are in
that big glass palace, but we can't get at 'em."




Chapter Eight

Queen Coo-ee-oh


Princess Ozma considered the situation gravely. Then she tied her
handkerchief to her wand and, standing at the water's edge, waved the
handkerchief like a flag, as a signal. For a time they could observe no
response.

"I don't see what good that will do," said Dorothy. "Even if the
Skeezers are on that island and see us, and know we're friends, they
haven't any boats to come and get us."

But the Skeezers didn't need boats, as the girls soon discovered. For
on a sudden an opening appeared at the base of the palace and from the
opening came a slender shaft of steel, reaching out slowly but steadily
across the water in the direction of the place where they stood. To the
girls this steel arrangement looked like a triangle, with the base
nearest the water. It came toward them in the form of an arch,
stretching out from the palace wall until its end reached the bank and
rested there, while the other end still remained on the island.

Then they saw that it was a bridge, consisting of a steel footway just
broad enough to walk on, and two slender guide rails, one on either
side, which were connected with the footway by steel bars. The bridge
looked rather frail and Dorothy feared it would not bear their weight,
but Ozma at once called, "Come on!" and started to walk across, holding
fast to the rail on either side. So Dorothy summoned her courage and
followed after. Before Ozma had taken three steps she halted and so
forced Dorothy to halt, for the bridge was again moving and returning
to the island.

"We need not walk after all," said Ozma. So they stood still in their
places and let the steel bridge draw them onward. Indeed, the bridge
drew them well into the glass-domed building which covered the island,
and soon they found themselves standing in a marble room where two
handsomely dressed young men stood on a platform to receive them.

Ozma at once stepped from the end of the bridge to the marble platform,
followed by Dorothy, and then the bridge disappeared with a slight
clang of steel and a marble slab covered the opening from which it had
emerged.

The two young men bowed profoundly to Ozma, and one of them said:

"Queen Coo-ee-oh bids you welcome, O Strangers. Her Majesty is waiting
to receive you in her palace."

"Lead on," replied Ozma with dignity.

But instead of "leading on," the platform of marble began to rise,
carrying them upward through a square hole above which just fitted it.
A moment later they found themselves within the great glass dome that
covered almost all of the island.

Within this dome was a little village, with houses, streets, gardens
and parks. The houses were of colored marbles, prettily designed, with
many stained-glass windows, and the streets and gardens seemed well
cared for. Exactly under the center of the lofty dome was a small park
filled with brilliant flowers, with an elaborate fountain, and facing
this park stood a building larger and more imposing than the others.
Toward this building the young men escorted Ozma and Dorothy.

On the streets and in the doorways or open windows of the houses were
men, women and children, all richly dressed. These were much like other
people in different parts of the Land of Oz, except that instead of
seeming merry and contented they all wore expressions of much solemnity
or of nervous irritation. They had beautiful homes, splendid clothes,
and ample food, but Dorothy at once decided something was wrong with
their lives and that they were not happy. She said nothing, however,
but looked curiously at the Skeezers.

At the entrance of the palace Ozma and Dorothy were met by two other
young men, in uniform and armed with queer weapons that seemed about
halfway between pistols and guns, but were like neither. Their
conductors bowed and left them, and the two in uniforms led the girls
into the palace.

In a beautiful throne room, surrounded by a dozen or more young men and
women, sat the Queen of the Skeezers, Coo-ee-oh. She was a girl who
looked older than Ozma or Dorothy--fifteen or sixteen, at least--and
although she was elaborately dressed as if she were going to a ball she
was too thin and plain of feature to be pretty. But evidently Queen
Coo-ee-oh did not realize this fact, for her air and manner betrayed
her as proud and haughty and with a high regard for her own importance.
Dorothy at once decided she was "snippy" and that she would not like
Queen Coo-ee-oh as a companion.

The Queen's hair was as black as her skin was white and her eyes were
black, too. The eyes, as she calmly examined Ozma and Dorothy, had a
suspicious and unfriendly look in them, but she said quietly:

"I know who you are, for I have consulted my Magic Oracle, which told
me that one calls herself Princess Ozma, the Ruler of all the Land of
Oz, and the other is Princess Dorothy of Oz, who came from a country
called Kansas. I know nothing of the Land of Oz, and I know nothing of
Kansas."

"Why, this is the Land of Oz!" cried Dorothy. "It's a part of the Land
of Oz, anyhow, whether you know it or not."

"Oh, in-deed!" answered Queen Coo-ee-oh, scornfully. "I suppose you
will claim next that this Princess Ozma, ruling the Land of Oz, rules
me!"

"Of course," returned Dorothy. "There's no doubt of it."

The Queen turned to Ozma.

"Do you dare make such a claim?" she asked.

By this time Ozma had made up her mind as to the character of this
haughty and disdainful creature, whose self-pride evidently led her to
believe herself superior to all others.

"I did not come here to quarrel with your Majesty," said the girl Ruler
of Oz, quietly. "What and who I am is well established, and my
authority comes from the Fairy Queen Lurline, of whose band I was a
member when Lurline made all Oz a Fairyland. There are several
countries and several different peoples in this broad land, each of
which has its separate rulers, Kings, Emperors and Queens. But all
these render obedience to my laws and acknowledge me as the supreme
Ruler."

"If other Kings and Queens are fools that does not interest me in the
least," replied Coo-ee-oh, disdainfully. "In the Land of the Skeezers I
alone am supreme. You are impudent to think I would defer to you--or to
anyone else."

"Let us not speak of this now, please," answered Ozma. "Your island is
in danger, for a powerful foe is preparing to destroy it."

"Pah! The Flatheads. I do not fear them."

"Their Supreme Dictator is a Sorcerer."

"My magic is greater than his. Let the Flatheads come! They will never
return to their barren mountain-top. I will see to that."

Ozma did not like this attitude, for it meant that the Skeezers were
eager to fight the Flatheads, and Ozma's object in coming here was to
prevent fighting and induce the two quarrelsome neighbors to make
peace. She was also greatly disappointed in Coo-ee-oh, for the reports
of Su-dic had led her to imagine the Queen more just and honorable than
were the Flatheads. Indeed Ozma reflected that the girl might be better
at heart than her self-pride and overbearing manner indicated, and in
any event it would be wise not to antagonize her but to try to win her
friendship.

"I do not like wars, your Majesty," said Ozma. "In the Emerald City,
where I rule thousands of people, and in the countries near to the
Emerald City, where thousands more acknowledge my rule, there is no
army at all, because there is no quarreling and no need to fight. If
differences arise between my people, they come to me and I judge the
cases and award justice to all. So, when I learned there might be war
between two faraway people of Oz, I came here to settle the dispute and
adjust the quarrel."

"No one asked you to come," declared Queen Coo-ee-oh. "It is my
business to settle this dispute, not yours. You say my island is a part
of the Land of Oz, which you rule, but that is all nonsense, for I've
never heard of the Land of Oz, nor of you. You say you are a fairy, and
that fairies gave you command over me. I don't believe it! What I do
believe is that you are an impostor and have come here to stir up
trouble among my people, who are already becoming difficult to manage.
You two girls may even be spies of the vile Flatheads, for all I know,
and may be trying to trick me. But understand this," she added, proudly
rising from her jeweled throne to confront them, "I have magic powers
greater than any fairy possesses, and greater than any Flathead
possesses. I am a Krumbic Witch--the only Krumbic Witch in the
world--and I fear the magic of no other creature that exists! You say
you rule thousands. I rule one hundred and one Skeezers. But every one
of them trembles at my word. Now that Ozma of Oz and Princess Dorothy
are here, I shall rule one hundred and three subjects, for you also
shall bow before my power. More than that, in ruling you I also rule
the thousands you say you rule."

Dorothy was very indignant at this speech.

"I've got a pink kitten that sometimes talks like that," she said, "but
after I give her a good whipping she doesn't think she's so high and
mighty after all. If you only knew who Ozma is you'd be scared to death
to talk to her like that!"

Queen Coo-ee-oh gave the girl a supercilious look. Then she turned
again to Ozma.

"I happen to know," said she, "that the Flatheads intend to attack us
tomorrow, but we are ready for them. Until the battle is over, I shall
keep you two strangers prisoners on my island, from which there is no
chance for you to escape."

She turned and looked around the band of courtiers who stood silently
around her throne.

"Lady Aurex," she continued, singling out one of the young women, "take
these children to your house and care for them, giving them food and
lodging. You may allow them to wander anywhere under the Great Dome,
for they are harmless. After I have attended to the Flatheads I will
consider what next to do with these foolish girls."

She resumed her seat and the Lady Aurex bowed low and said in a humble
manner:

"I obey your Majesty's commands." Then to Ozma and Dorothy she added,
"Follow me," and turned to leave the throne room.

Dorothy looked to see what Ozma would do. To her surprise and a little
to her disappointment Ozma turned and followed Lady Aurex. So Dorothy
trailed after them, but not without giving a parting, haughty look
toward Queen Coo-ee-oh, who had her face turned the other way and did
not see the disapproving look.




Chapter Nine

Lady Aurex


Lady Aurex led Ozma and Dorothy along a street to a pretty marble house
near to one edge of the great glass dome that covered the village. She
did not speak to the girls until she had ushered them into a pleasant
room, comfortably furnished, nor did any of the solemn people they met
on the street venture to speak.

When they were seated Lady Aurex asked if they were hungry, and finding
they were summoned a maid and ordered food to be brought.

This Lady Aurex looked to be about twenty years old, although in the
Land of Oz where people have never changed in appearance since the
fairies made it a fairyland--where no one grows old or dies--it is
always difficult to say how many years anyone has lived. She had a
pleasant, attractive face, even though it was solemn and sad as the
faces of all Skeezers seemed to be, and her costume was rich and
elaborate, as became a lady in waiting upon the Queen.

Ozma had observed Lady Aurex closely and now asked her in a gentle tone:

"Do you, also, believe me to be an impostor?"

"I dare not say," replied Lady Aurex in a low tone.

"Why are you afraid to speak freely?" inquired Ozma.

"The Queen punishes us if we make remarks that she does not like."

"Are we not alone then, in this house?"

"The Queen can hear everything that is spoken on this island--even the
slightest whisper," declared Lady Aurex. "She is a wonderful witch, as
she has told you, and it is folly to criticise her or disobey her
commands."

Ozma looked into her eyes and saw that she would like to say more if
she dared. So she drew from her bosom her silver wand, and having
muttered a magic phrase in a strange tongue, she left the room and
walked slowly around the outside of the house, making a complete circle
and waving her wand in mystic curves as she walked. Lady Aurex watched
her curiously and, when Ozma had again entered the room and seated
herself, she asked:

"What have you done?"

"I've enchanted this house in such a manner that Queen Coo-ee-oh, with
all her witchcraft, cannot hear one word we speak within the magic
circle I have made," replied Ozma. "We may now speak freely and as
loudly as we wish, without fear of the Queen's anger."

Lady Aurex brightened at this.

"Can I trust you?" she asked.

"Ev'rybody trusts Ozma," exclaimed Dorothy. "She is true and honest,
and your wicked Queen will be sorry she insulted the powerful Ruler of
all the Land of Oz."

"The Queen does not know me yet," said Ozma, "but I want you to know
me, Lady Aurex, and I want you to tell me why you, and all the
Skeezers, are unhappy. Do not fear Coo-ee-oh's anger, for she cannot
hear a word we say, I assure you."

Lady Aurex was thoughtful a moment; then she said: "I shall trust you,
Princess Ozma, for I believe you are what you say you are--our supreme
Ruler. If you knew the dreadful punishments our Queen inflicts upon us,
you would not wonder we are so unhappy. The Skeezers are not bad
people; they do not care to quarrel and fight, even with their enemies
the Flatheads; but they are so cowed and fearful of Coo-ee-oh that they
obey her slightest word, rather than suffer her anger."

"Hasn't she any heart, then?" asked Dorothy.

"She never displays mercy. She loves no one but herself," asserted Lady
Aurex, but she trembled as she said it, as if afraid even yet of her
terrible Queen.

"That's pretty bad," said Dorothy, shaking her head gravely. "I see
you've a lot to do here, Ozma, in this forsaken corner of the Land of
Oz. First place, you've got to take the magic away from Queen
Coo-ee-oh, and from that awful Su-dic, too. My idea is that neither of
them is fit to rule anybody, 'cause they're cruel and hateful. So
you'll have to give the Skeezers and Flatheads new rulers and teach all
their people that they're part of the Land of Oz and must obey, above
all, the lawful Ruler, Ozma of Oz. Then, when you've done that, we can
go back home again."

Ozma smiled at her little friend's earnest counsel, but Lady Aurex said
in an anxious tone:

"I am surprised that you suggest these reforms while you are yet
prisoners on this island and in Coo-ee-oh's power. That these things
should be done, there is no doubt, but just now a dreadful war is
likely to break out, and frightful things may happen to us all.  Our
Queen has such conceit that she thinks she can overcome the Su-dic and
his people, but it is said Su-dic's magic is very powerful, although
not as great as that possessed by his wife Rora, before Coo-ee-oh
transformed her into a Golden Pig."

"I don't blame her very much for doing that," remarked Dorothy, "for
the Flatheads were wicked to try to catch your beautiful fish and the
Witch Rora wanted to poison all the fishes in the lake."

"Do you know the reason?" asked the Lady Aurex.

"I don't s'pose there was any reason, 'cept just wickedness," replied
Dorothy.

"Tell us the reason," said Ozma earnestly.

"Well, your Majesty, once--a long time ago--the Flatheads and the
Skeezers were friendly. They visited our island and we visited their
mountain, and everything was pleasant between the two peoples. At that
time the Flatheads were ruled by three Adepts in Sorcery, beautiful
girls who were not Flatheads, but had wandered to the Flat Mountain and
made their home there. These three Adepts used their magic only for
good, and the mountain people gladly made them their rulers. They
taught the Flatheads how to use their canned brains and how to work
metals into clothing that would never wear out, and many other things
that added to their happiness and content.

"Coo-ee-oh was our Queen then, as now, but she knew no magic and so had
nothing to be proud of. But the three Adepts were very kind to
Coo-ee-oh. They built for us this wonderful dome of glass and our
houses of marble and taught us to make beautiful clothing and many
other things. Coo-ee-oh pretended to be very grateful for these favors,
but it seems that all the time she was jealous of the three Adepts and
secretly tried to discover their arts of magic. In this she was more
clever than anyone suspected. She invited the three Adepts to a banquet
one day, and while they were feasting Coo-ee-oh stole their charms and
magical instruments and transformed them into three fishes--a gold
fish, a silver fish and a bronze fish. While the poor fishes were
gasping and flopping helplessly on the floor of the banquet room one of
them said reproachfully: 'You will be punished for this, Coo-ee-oh, for
if one of us dies or is destroyed, you will become shrivelled and
helpless, and all your stolen magic will depart from you.' Frightened
by this threat, Coo-ee-oh at once caught up the three fish and ran with
them to the shore of the lake, where she cast them into the water. This
revived the three Adepts and they swam away and disappeared.

"I, myself, witnessed this shocking scene," continued Lady Aurex, "and
so did many other Skeezers. The news was carried to the Flatheads, who
then turned from friends to enemies. The Su-dic and his wife Rora were
the only ones on the mountain who were glad the three Adepts had been
lost to them, and they at once became Rulers of the Flatheads and stole
their canned brains from others to make themselves the more powerful.
Some of the Adepts' magic tools had been left on the mountain, and
these Rora seized and by the use of them she became a witch.

"The result of Coo-ee-oh's treachery was to make both the Skeezers and
the Flatheads miserable instead of happy. Not only were the Su-dic and
his wife cruel to their people, but our Queen at once became proud and
arrogant and treated us very unkindly. All the Skeezers knew she had
stolen her magic powers and so she hated us and made us humble
ourselves before her and obey her slightest word. If we disobeyed, or
did not please her, or if we talked about her when we were in our own
homes she would have us dragged to the whipping post in her palace and
lashed with knotted cords. That is why we fear her so greatly."

This story filled Ozma's heart with sorrow and Dorothy's heart with
indignation.

"I now understand," said Ozma, "why the fishes in the lake have brought
about war between the Skeezers and the Flatheads."

"Yes," Lady Aurex answered, "now that you know the story it is easy to
understand. The Su-dic and his wife came to our lake hoping to catch
the silver fish, or gold fish, or bronze fish--any one of them would
do--and by destroying it deprive Coo-ee-oh of her magic. Then they
could easily conquer her. Also they had another reason for wanting to
catch the fish--they feared that in some way the three Adepts might
regain their proper forms and then they would be sure to return to the
mountain and punish Rora and the Su-dic. That was why Rora finally
tried to poison all the fishes in the lake, at the time Coo-ee-oh
transformed her into a Golden Pig. Of course this attempt to destroy
the fishes frightened the Queen, for her safety lies in keeping the
three fishes alive."

"I s'pose Coo-ee-oh will fight the Flatheads with all her might,"
observed Dorothy.

"And with all her magic," added Ozma, thoughtfully.

"I do not see how the Flatheads can get to this island to hurt us,"
said Lady Aurex.

"They have bows and arrows, and I guess they mean to shoot the arrows
at your big dome, and break all the glass in it," suggested Dorothy.

But Lady Aurex shook her head with a smile.

"They cannot do that," she replied.

"Why not?"

"I dare not tell you why, but if the Flatheads come to-morrow morning
you will yourselves see the reason."

"I do not think they will attempt to harm the island," Ozma declared.
"I believe they will first attempt to destroy the fishes, by poison or
some other means. If they succeed in that, the conquest of the island
will not be difficult."

"They have no boats," said Lady Aurex, "and Coo-ee-oh, who has long
expected this war, has been preparing for it in many astonishing ways.
I almost wish the Flatheads would conquer us, for then we would be free
from our dreadful Queen; but I do not wish to see the three transformed
fishes destroyed, for in them lies our only hope of future happiness."

"Ozma will take care of you, whatever happens," Dorothy assured her.
But the Lady Aurex, not knowing the extent of Ozma's power--which was,
in fact, not so great as Dorothy imagined--could not take much comfort
in this promise.

It was evident there would be exciting times on the morrow, if the
Flatheads really attacked the Skeezers of the Magic Isle.




Chapter Ten

Under Water


When night fell all the interior of the Great Dome, streets and houses,
became lighted with brilliant incandescent lamps, which rendered it
bright as day. Dorothy thought the island must look beautiful by night
from the outer shore of the lake. There was revelry and feasting in the
Queen's palace, and the music of the royal band could be plainly heard
in Lady Aurex's house, where Ozma and Dorothy remained with their
hostess and keeper. They were prisoners, but treated with much
consideration.

Lady Aurex gave them a nice supper and when they wished to retire
showed them to a pretty room with comfortable beds and wished them a
good night and pleasant dreams.

"What do you think of all this, Ozma?" Dorothy anxiously inquired when
they were alone.

"I am glad we came," was the reply, "for although there may be mischief
done to-morrow, it was necessary I should know about these people,
whose leaders are wild and lawless and oppress their subjects with
injustice and cruelties. My task, therefore, is to liberate the
Skeezers and the Flatheads and secure for them freedom and happiness. I
have no doubt I can accomplish this in time."

"Just now, though, we're in a bad fix," asserted Dorothy. "If Queen
Coo-ee-oh conquers to-morrow, she won't be nice to us, and if the
Su-dic conquers, he'll be worse."

"Do not worry, dear," said Ozma, "I do not think we are in danger,
whatever happens, and the result of our adventure is sure to be good."

Dorothy was not worrying, especially. She had confidence in her friend,
the fairy Princess of Oz, and she enjoyed the excitement of the events
in which she was taking part. So she crept into bed and fell asleep as
easily as if she had been in her own cosy room in Ozma's palace.

A sort of grating, grinding sound awakened her. The whole island seemed
to tremble and sway, as it might do in an earthquake. Dorothy sat up in
bed, rubbing her eyes to get the sleep out of them, and then found it
was daybreak.

Ozma was hurriedly dressing herself.

"What is it?" asked Dorothy, jumping out of bed.

"I'm not sure," answered Ozma "but it feels as if the island is
sinking."

As soon as possible they finished dressing, while the creaking and
swaying continued. Then they rushed into the living room of the house
and found Lady Aurex, fully dressed, awaiting them.

"Do not be alarmed," said their hostess. "Coo-ee-oh has decided to
submerge the island, that is all. But it proves the Flatheads are
coming to attack us."

"What do you mean by sub-sub-merging the island?" asked Dorothy.

"Come here and see," was the reply.

Lady Aurex led them to a window which faced the side of the great dome
which covered all the village, and they could see that the island was
indeed sinking, for the water of the lake was already half way up the
side of the dome. Through the glass could be seen swimming fishes, and
tall stalks of swaying seaweeds, for the water was clear as crystal and
through it they could distinguish even the farther shore of the lake.

"The Flatheads are not here yet," said Lady Aurex. "They will come
soon, but not until all of this dome is under the surface of the water."

"Won't the dome leak?" Dorothy inquired anxiously.

"No, indeed."

"Was the island ever sub-sub-sunk before?"

"Oh, yes; on several occasions. But Coo-ee-oh doesn't care to do that
often, for it requires a lot of hard work to operate the machinery. The
dome was built so that the island could disappear. I think," she
continued, "that our Queen fears the Flatheads will attack the island
and try to break the glass of the dome."

"Well, if we're under water, they can't fight us, and we can't fight
them," asserted Dorothy.

"They could kill the fishes, however," said Ozma gravely.

"We have ways to fight, also, even though our island is under water,"
claimed Lady Aurex. "I cannot tell you all our secrets, but this island
is full of surprises. Also our Queen's magic is astonishing."

"Did she steal it all from the three Adepts in Sorcery that are now
fishes?"

"She stole the knowledge and the magic tools, but she has used them as
the three Adepts never would have done."

By this time the top of the dome was quite under water and suddenly the
island stopped sinking and became stationary.

"See!" cried Lady Aurex, pointing to the shore. "The Flatheads have
come."

On the bank, which was now far above their heads, a crowd of dark
figures could be seen.

"Now let us see what Coo-ee-oh will do to oppose them," continued Lady
Aurex, in a voice that betrayed her excitement.

   *     *     *     *     *

The Flatheads, pushing their way through the line of palm trees, had
reached the shore of the lake just as the top of the island's dome
disappeared beneath the surface. The water now flowed from shore to
shore, but through the clear water the dome was still visible and the
houses of the Skeezers could be dimly seen through the panes of glass.

"Good!" exclaimed the Su-dic, who had armed all his followers and had
brought with him two copper vessels, which he carefully set down upon
the ground beside him. "If Coo-ee-oh wants to hide instead of fighting
our job will be easy, for in one of these copper vessels I have enough
poison to kill every fish in the lake."

"Kill them, then, while we have time, and then we can go home again,"
advised one of the chief officers.

"Not yet," objected the Su-dic. "The Queen of the Skeezers has defied
me, and I want to get her into my power, as well as to destroy her
magic. She transformed my poor wife into a Golden Pig, and I must have
revenge for that, whatever else we do."

"Look out!" suddenly exclaimed the officers, pointing into the lake;
"something's going to happen."

From the submerged dome a door opened and something black shot swiftly
out into the water. The door instantly closed behind it and the dark
object cleaved its way through the water, without rising to the
surface, directly toward the place where the Flatheads were standing.

"What is that?" Dorothy asked the Lady Aurex.

"That is one of the Queen's submarines," was the reply. "It is all
enclosed, and can move under water. Coo-ee-oh has several of these
boats which are kept in little rooms in the basement under our village.
When the island is submerged, the Queen uses these boats to reach the
shore, and I believe she now intends to fight the Flatheads with them."

The Su-dic and his people knew nothing of Coo-ee-oh's submarines, so
they watched with surprise as the under-water boat approached them.
When it was quite near the shore it rose to the surface and the top
parted and fell back, disclosing a boat full of armed Skeezers. At the
head was the Queen, standing up in the bow and holding in one hand a
coil of magic rope that gleamed like silver.

The boat halted and Coo-ee-oh drew back her arm to throw the silver
rope toward the Su-dic, who was now but a few feet from her. But the
wily Flathead leader quickly realized his danger and before the Queen
could throw the rope he caught up one of the copper vessels and dashed
its contents full in her face!




Chapter Eleven

The Conquest of the Skeezers


Queen Coo-ee-oh dropped the rope, tottered and fell headlong into the
water, sinking beneath the surface, while the Skeezers in the submarine
assist her and only stared at the ripples in the water where she had
disappeared. A moment later there arose to the surface a beautiful
White Swan. This Swan was of large size, very gracefully formed, and
scattered all over its white feathers were tiny diamonds, so thickly
placed that as the rays of the morning sun fell upon them the entire
body of the Swan glistened like one brilliant diamond. The head of the
Diamond Swan had a bill of polished gold and its eyes were two
sparkling amethysts.

"Hooray!" cried the Su-dic, dancing up and down with wicked glee. "My
poor wife, Rora, is avenged at last. You made her a Golden Pig,
Coo-ee-oh, and now I have made you a Diamond Swan. Float on your lake
forever, if you like, for your web feet can do no more magic and you
are as powerless as the Pig you made of my wife!

"Villain! Scoundrel!" croaked the Diamond Swan. "You will be punished
for this. Oh, what a fool I was to let you enchant me!

"A fool you were, and a fool you are!" laughed the Su-dic, dancing
madly in his delight. And then he carelessly tipped over the other
copper vessel with his heel and its contents spilled on the sands and
were lost to the last drop.

The Su-dic stopped short and looked at the overturned vessel with a
rueful countenance.

"That's too bad--too bad!" he exclaimed sorrowfully. "I've lost all the
poison I had to kill the fishes with, and I can't make any more because
only my wife knew the secret of it, and she is now a foolish Pig and
has forgotten all her magic."

"Very well," said the Diamond Swan scornfully, as she floated upon the
water and swam gracefully here and there. "I'm glad to see you are
foiled. Your punishment is just beginning, for although you have
enchanted me and taken away my powers of sorcery you have still the
three magic fishes to deal with, and they'll destroy you in time, mark
my words."

The Su-dic stared at the Swan a moment. Then he yelled to his men:

"Shoot her! Shoot the saucy bird!"

They let fly some arrows at the Diamond Swan, but she dove under the
water and the missiles fell harmless. When Coo-ce-oh rose to the
surface she was far from the shore and she swiftly swam across the lake
to where no arrows or spears could reach her.

The Su-dic rubbed his chin and thought what to do next. Near by floated
the submarine in which the Queen had come, but the Skeezers who were in
it were puzzled what to do with themselves. Perhaps they were not sorry
their cruel mistress had been transformed into a Diamond Swan, but the
transformation had left them quite helpless. The under-water boat was
not operated by machinery, but by certain mystic words uttered by
Coo-ee-oh. They didn't know how to submerge it, or how to make the
water-tight shield cover them again, or how to make the boat go back to
the castle, or make it enter the little basement room where it was
usually kept. As a matter of fact, they were now shut out of their
village under the Great Dome and could not get back again. So one of
the men called to the Supreme Dictator of the Flatheads, saying:

"Please make us prisoners and take us to your mountain, and feed and
keep us, for we have nowhere to go."

Then the Su-dic laughed and answered:

"Not so. I can't be bothered by caring for a lot of stupid Skeezers.
Stay where you are, or go wherever you please, so long as you keep away
from our mountain." He turned to his men and added: "We have conquered
Queen Coo-ee-oh and made her a helpless swan. The Skeezers are under
water and may stay there. So, having won the war, let us go home again
and make merry and feast, having after many years proved the Flatheads
to be greater and more powerful than the Skeezers."

So the Flatheads marched away and passed through the row of palms and
went back to their mountain, where the Su-dic and a few of his officers
feasted and all the others were forced to wait on them.

"I'm sorry we couldn't have roast pig," said the Su-dic, "but as the
only pig we have is made of gold, we can't eat her. Also the Golden Pig
happens to be my wife, and even were she not gold I am sure she would
be too tough to eat."




Chapter Twelve

The Diamond Swan


When the Flatheads had gone away the Diamond Swan swam back to the boat
and one of the young Skeezers named Ervic said to her eagerly:

"How can we get back to the island, your Majesty?"

"Am I not beautiful?" asked Coo-ee-oh, arching her neck gracefully and
spreading her diamond-sprinkled wings. "I can see my reflection in the
water, and I'm sure there is no bird nor beast, nor human as
magnificent as I am!"

"How shall we get back to the island, your Majesty?" pleaded Ervic.

"When my fame spreads throughout the land, people will travel from all
parts of this lake to look upon my loveliness," said Coo-ee-oh, shaking
her feathers to make the diamonds glitter more brilliantly.

"But, your Majesty, we must go home and we do not know how to get
there," Ervic persisted.

"My eyes," remarked the Diamond Swan, "are wonderfully blue and bright
and will charm all beholders."

"Tell us how to make the boat go--how to get back into the island,"
begged Ervic and the others cried just as earnestly: "Tell us,
Coo-ee-oh; tell us!"

"I don't know," replied the Queen in a careless tone.

"You are a magic-worker, a sorceress, a witch!"

"I was, of course, when I was a girl," she said, bending her head over
the clear water to catch her reflection in it; "but now I've forgotten
all such foolish things as magic. Swans are lovelier than girls,
especially when they're sprinkled with diamonds. Don't you think so?"
And she gracefully swam away, without seeming to care whether they
answered or not.

Ervic and his companions were in despair. They saw plainly that
Coo-ee-oh could not or would not help them. The former Queen had no
further thought for her island, her people, or her wonderful magic; she
was only intent on admiring her own beauty.

"Truly," said Ervic, in a gloomy voice, "the Flatheads have conquered
us!"

   *     *     *     *     *

Some of these events had been witnessed by Ozma and Dorothy and Lady
Aurex, who had left the house and gone close to the glass of the dome,
in order to see what was going on. Many of the Skeezers had also
crowded against the dome, wondering what would happen next. Although
their vision was to an extent blurred by the water and the necessity of
looking upward at an angle, they had observed the main points of the
drama enacted above. They saw Queen Coo-ee-oh's submarine come to the
surface and open; they saw the Queen standing erect to throw her magic
rope; they saw her sudden transformation into a Diamond Swan, and a cry
of amazement went up from the Skeezers inside the dome.

"Good!" exclaimed Dorothy. "I hate that old Su-dic, but I'm glad
Coo-ee-oh is punished."

"This is a dreadful misfortune!" cried Lady Aurex, pressing her hands
upon her heart.

"Yes," agreed Ozma, nodding her head thoughtfully; "Coo-ee-oh's
misfortune will prove a terrible blow to her people."

"What do you mean by that?" asked Dorothy in surprise. "Seems to me the
Skeezers are in luck to lose their cruel Queen."

"If that were all you would be right," responded Lady Aurex; "and if
the island were above water it would not be so serious. But here we all
are, at the bottom of the lake, and fast prisoners in this dome."

"Can't you raise the island?" inquired Dorothy.

"No. Only Coo-ee-oh knew how to do that," was the answer.

"We can try," insisted Dorothy. "If it can be made to go down, it can
be made to come up. The machinery is still here, I suppose.

"Yes; but the machinery works by magic, and Coo-ee-oh would never share
her secret power with any one of us."

Dorothy's face grew grave; but she was thinking.

"Ozma knows a lot of magic," she said.

"But not that kind of magic," Ozma replied.

"Can't you learn how, by looking at the machinery?"

"I'm afraid not, my dear. It isn't fairy magic at all; it is
witchcraft."

"Well," said Dorothy, turning to Lady Aurex, "you say there are other
sub-sub-sinking boats. We can get in one of those, and shoot out to the
top of the water, like Coo-ee-oh did, and so escape. And then we can
help to rescue all the Skeezers down here."

"No one knows how to work the under-water boats but the Queen,"
declared Lady Aurex.

"Isn't there any door or window in this dome that we could open?"

"No; and, if there were, the water would rush in to flood the dome, and
we could not get out."

"The Skeezers," said Ozma, "could not drown; they only get wet and
soggy and in that condition they would be very uncomfortable and
unhappy. But you are a mortal girl, Dorothy, and if your Magic Belt
protected you from death you would have to lie forever at the bottom of
the lake."

"No, I'd rather die quickly," asserted the little girl. "But there are
doors in the basement that open--to let out the bridges and the
boats--and that would not flood the dome, you know."

"Those doors open by a magic word, and only Coo-ee-oh knows the word
that must be uttered," said Lady Aurex.

"Dear me!" exclaimed Dorothy, "that dreadful Queen's witchcraft upsets
all my plans to escape. I guess I'll give it up, Ozma, and let you save
us."

Ozma smiled, but her smile was not so cheerful as usual. The Princess
of Oz found herself confronted with a serious problem, and although she
had no thought of despairing she realized that the Skeezers and their
island, as well as Dorothy and herself, were in grave trouble and that
unless she could find a means to save them they would be lost to the
Land of Oz for all future time.

"In such a dilemma," said she, musingly, "nothing is gained by haste.
Careful thought may aid us, and so may the course of events. The
unexpected is always likely to happen, and cheerful patience is better
than reckless action."

"All right," returned Dorothy; "take your time, Ozma; there's no hurry.
How about some breakfast, Lady Aurex?"

Their hostess led them back to the house, where she ordered her
trembling servants to prepare and serve breakfast. All the Skeezers
were frightened and anxious over the transformation of their Queen into
a swan. Coo-ee-oh was feared and hated, but they had depended on her
magic to conquer the Flatheads and she was the only one who could raise
their island to the surface of the lake again.

Before breakfast was over several of the leading Skeezers came to Aurex
to ask her advice and to question Princess Ozma, of whom they knew
nothing except that she claimed to be a fairy and the Ruler of all the
land, including the Lake of the Skeezers.

"If what you told Queen Coo-ee-oh was the truth," they said to her,
"you are our lawful mistress, and we may depend on you to get us out of
our difficulties."

"I will try to do that," Ozma graciously assured them, "but you must
remember that the powers of fairies are granted them to bring comfort
and happiness to all who appeal to them. On the contrary, such magic as
Coo-ee-oh knew and practiced is unlawful witchcraft and her arts are
such as no fairy would condescend to use. However, it is sometimes
necessary to consider evil in order to accomplish good, and perhaps by
studying Coo-ee-oh's tools and charms of witchcraft I may be able to
save us. Do you promise to accept me as your Ruler and to obey my
commands?"

They promised willingly.

"Then," continued Ozma, "I will go to Coo-ee-oh's palace and take
possession of it. Perhaps what I find there will be of use to me. In
the meantime tell all the Skeezers to fear nothing, but have patience.
Let them return to their homes and perform their daily tasks as usual.
Coo-ee-oh's loss may not prove a misfortune, but rather a blessing."

This speech cheered the Skeezers amazingly. Really, they had no one now
to depend upon but Ozma, and in spite of their dangerous position their
hearts were lightened by the transformation and absence of their cruel
Queen.

They got out their brass band and a grand procession escorted Ozma and
Dorothy to the palace, where all of Coo-ee-oh's former servants were
eager to wait upon them. Ozma invited Lady Aurex to stay at the palace
also, for she knew all about the Skeezers and their island and had also
been a favorite of the former Queen, so her advice and information were
sure to prove valuable.

Ozma was somewhat disappointed in what she found in the palace. One
room of Coo-ee-oh's private suite was entirely devoted to the practice
of witchcraft, and here were countless queer instruments and jars of
ointments and bottles of potions labeled with queer names, and strange
machines that Ozma could not guess the use of, and pickled toads and
snails and lizards, and a shelf of books that were written in blood,
but in a language which the Ruler of Oz did not know.

"I do not see," said Ozma to Dorothy, who accompanied her in her
search, "how Coo-ee-oh knew the use of the magic tools she stole from
the three Adept Witches. Moreover, from all reports these Adepts
practiced only good witchcraft, such as would be helpful to their
people, while Coo-ee-oh performed only evil."

"Perhaps she turned the good things to evil uses?" suggested Dorothy.

"Yes, and with the knowledge she gained Coo-ee-oh doubtless invented
many evil things quite unknown to the good Adepts, who are now fishes,"
added Ozma. "It is unfortunate for us that the Queen kept her secrets
so closely guarded, for no one but herself could use any of these
strange things gathered in this room."

"Couldn't we capture the Diamond Swan and make her tell the secrets?"
asked Dorothy.

"No; even were we able to capture her, Coo-ee-oh now has forgotten all
the magic she ever knew. But until we ourselves escape from this dome
we could not capture the Swan, and were we to escape we would have no
use for Coo-ee-oh's magic."

"That's a fact," admitted Dorothy. "But--say, Ozma, here's a good idea!
Couldn't we capture the three fishes--the gold and silver and bronze
ones, and couldn't you transform 'em back to their own shapes, and then
couldn't the three Adepts get us out of here?"

"You are not very practical, Dorothy dear. It would be as hard for us
to capture the three fishes, from among all the other fishes in the
lake, as to capture the Swan."

"But if we could, it would be more help to us," persisted the little
girl.

"That is true," answered Ozma, smiling at her friend's eagerness. "You
find a way to catch the fish, and I'll promise when they are caught to
restore them to their proper forms."

"I know you think I can't do it," replied Dorothy, "but I'm going to
try."

She left the palace and went to a place where she could look through a
clear pane of the glass dome into the surrounding water. Immediately
she became interested in the queer sights that met her view.

The Lake of the Skeezers was inhabited by fishes of many kinds and many
sizes. The water was so transparent that the girl could see for a long
distance and the fishes came so close to the glass of the dome that
sometimes they actually touched it. On the white sands at the bottom of
the lake were star-fish, lobsters, crabs and many shell fish of strange
shapes and with shells of gorgeous hues. The water foliage was of
brilliant colors and to Dorothy it resembled a splendid garden.

But the fishes were the most interesting of all. Some were big and
lazy, floating slowly along or lying at rest with just their fins
waving. Many with big round eyes looked full at the girl as she watched
them and Dorothy wondered if they could hear her through the glass if
she spoke to them. In Oz, where all the animals and birds can talk,
many fishes are able to talk also, but usually they are more stupid
than birds and animals because they think slowly and haven't much to
talk about.

In the Lake of the Skeezers the fish of smaller size were more active
than the big ones and darted quickly in and out among the swaying
weeds, as if they had important business and were in a hurry. It was
among the smaller varieties that Dorothy hoped to spy the gold and
silver and bronze fishes. She had an idea the three would keep
together, being companions now as they were in their natural forms, but
such a multitude of fishes constantly passed, the scene shifting every
moment, that she was not sure she would notice them even if they
appeared in view. Her eyes couldn't look in all directions and the
fishes she sought might be on the other side of the dome, or far away
in the lake.

"P'raps, because they were afraid of Coo-ee-oh, they've hid themselves
somewhere, and don't know their enemy has been transformed," she
reflected.

She watched the fishes for a long time, until she became hungry and
went back to the palace for lunch. But she was not discouraged.

"Anything new, Ozma?" she asked.

"No, dear. Did you discover the three fishes?"

"Not yet. But there isn't anything better for me to do, Ozma, so I
guess I'll go back and watch again."




Chapter Thirteen

The Alarm Bell


Glinda, the Good, in her palace in the Quadling Country, had many
things to occupy her mind, for not only did she look after the weaving
and embroidery of her bevy of maids, and assist all those who came to
her to implore her help--beasts and birds as well as people--but she
was a close student of the arts of sorcery and spent much time in her
Magical Laboratory, where she strove to find a remedy for every evil
and to perfect her skill in magic.

Nevertheless, she did not forget to look in the Great Book of Records
each day to see if any mention was made of the visit of Ozma and
Dorothy to the Enchanted Mountain of the Flatheads and the Magic Isle
of the Skeezers. The Records told her that Ozma had arrived at the
mountain, that she had escaped, with her companion, and gone to the
island of the Skeezers, and that Queen Coo-ee-oh had submerged the
island so that it was entirely under water. Then came the statement
that the Flatheads had come to the lake to poison the fishes and that
their Supreme Dictator had transformed Queen Coo-ee-oh into a swan.

No other details were given in the Great Book and so Glinda did not
know that since Coo-ee-oh had forgotten her magic none of the Skeezers
knew how to raise the island to the surface again. So Glinda was not
worried about Ozma and Dorothy until one morning, while she sat with
her maids, there came a sudden clang of the great alarm bell. This was
so unusual that every maid gave a start and even the Sorceress for a
moment could not think what the alarm meant.

Then she remembered the ring she had given Dorothy when she left the
palace to start on her venture. In giving the ring Glinda had warned
the little girl not to use its magic powers unless she and Ozma were in
real danger, but then she was to turn it on her finger once to the
right and once to the left and Glinda's alarm bell would ring.

So the Sorceress now knew that danger threatened her beloved Ruler and
Princess Dorothy, and she hurried to her magic room to seek information
as to what sort of danger it was. The answer to her question was not
very satisfactory, for it was only: "Ozma and Dorothy are prisoners in
the great Dome of the Isle of the Skeezers, and the Dome is under the
water of the lake."

"Hasn't Ozma the power to raise the island to the surface?" inquired
Glinda.

"No," was the reply, and the Record refused to say more except that
Queen Coo-ee-oh, who alone could command the island to rise, had been
transformed by the Flathead Su-dic into a Diamond Swan.

Then Glinda consulted the past records of the Skeezers in the Great
Book. After diligent search she discovered that Coo-ee-oh was a
powerful sorceress who had gained most of her power by treacherously
transforming the Adepts of Magic, who were visiting her, into three
fishes--gold, silver and bronze--after which she had them cast into the
lake.

Glinda reflected earnestly on this information and decided that someone
must go to Ozma's assistance. While there was no great need of haste,
because Ozma and Dorothy could live in a submerged dome a long time, it
was evident they could not get out until someone was able to raise the
island.

The Sorceress looked through all her recipes and books of sorcery, but
could find no magic that would raise a sunken island. Such a thing had
never before been required in sorcery. Then Glinda made a little
island, covered by a glass dome, and sunk it in a pond near her castle,
and experimented in magical ways to bring it to the surface. She made
several such experiments, but all were failures. It seemed a simple
thing to do, yet she could not do it.

Nevertheless, the wise Sorceress did not despair of finding a way to
liberate her friends. Finally she concluded that the best thing to do
was to go to the Skeezer country and examine the lake. While there she
was more likely to discover a solution to the problem that bothered
her, and to work out a plan for the rescue of Ozma and Dorothy.

So Glinda summoned her storks and her aerial chariot, and telling her
maids she was going on a journey and might not soon return, she entered
the chariot and was carried swiftly to the Emerald City.

In Princess Ozma's palace the Scarecrow was now acting as Ruler of the
Land of Oz. There wasn't much for him to do, because all the affairs of
state moved so smoothly, but he was there in case anything unforeseen
should happen.

Glinda found the Scarecrow playing croquet with Trot and Betsy Bobbin,
two little girls who lived at the palace under Ozma's protection and
were great friends of Dorothy and much loved by all the Oz people.

"Something's happened!" cried Trot, as the chariot of the Sorceress
descended near them. "Glinda never comes here 'cept something's gone
wrong."

"I hope no harm has come to Ozma, or Dorothy," said Betsy anxiously, as
the lovely Sorceress stepped down from her chariot.

Glinda approached the Scarecrow and told him of the dilemma of Ozma and
Dorothy and she added: "We must save them, somehow, Scarecrow."

"Of course," replied the Scarecrow, stumbling over a wicket and falling
flat on his painted face.

The girls picked him up and patted his straw stuffing into shape, and
he continued, as if nothing had occurred: "But you'll have to tell me
what to do, for I never have raised a sunken island in all my life."

"We must have a Council of State as soon as possible," proposed the
Sorceress. "Please send messengers to summon all of Ozma's counsellors
to this palace. Then we can decide what is best to be done."

The Scarecrow lost no time in doing this. Fortunately most of the royal
counsellors were in the Emerald City or near to it, so they all met in
the throne room of the palace that same evening.




Chapter Fourteen

Ozma's Counsellors


No Ruler ever had such a queer assortment of advisers as the Princess
Ozma had gathered about her throne. Indeed, in no other country could
such amazing people exist. But Ozma loved them for their peculiarities
and could trust every one of them.

First there was the Tin Woodman. Every bit of him was tin, brightly
polished. All his joints were kept well oiled and moved smoothly. He
carried a gleaming axe to prove he was a woodman, but seldom had cause
to use it because he lived in a magnificent tin castle in the Winkie
Country of Oz and was the Emperor of all the Winkies. The Tin Woodman's
name was Nick Chopper. He had a very good mind, but his heart was not
of much account, so he was very careful to do nothing unkind or to hurt
anyone's feelings.

Another counsellor was Scraps, the Patchwork Girl of Oz, who was made
of a gaudy patchwork quilt, cut into shape and stuffed with cotton.
This Patchwork Girl was very intelligent, but so full of fun and mad
pranks that a lot of more stupid folks thought she must be crazy.
Scraps was jolly under all conditions, however grave they might be, but
her laughter and good spirits were of value in cheering others and in
her seemingly careless remarks much wisdom could often be found.

Then there was the Shaggy Man--shaggy from head to foot, hair and
whiskers, clothes and shoes--but very kind and gentle and one of Ozma's
most loyal supporters.

Tik-Tok was there, a copper man with machinery inside him, so cleverly
constructed that he moved, spoke and thought by three separate
clock-works. Tik-Tok was very reliable because he always did exactly
what he was wound up to do, but his machinery was liable to run down at
times and then he was quite helpless until wound up again.

A different sort of person was Jack Pumpkinhead, one of Ozma's oldest
friends and her companion on many adventures. Jack's body was very
crude and awkward, being formed of limbs of trees of different sizes,
jointed with wooden pegs. But it was a substantial body and not likely
to break or wear out, and when it was dressed the clothes covered much
of its roughness. The head of Jack Pumpkinhead was, as you have
guessed, a ripe pumpkin, with the eyes, nose and mouth carved upon one
side. The pumpkin was stuck on Jack's wooden neck and was liable to get
turned sidewise or backward and then he would have to straighten it
with his wooden hands.

The worst thing about this sort of a head was that it did not keep well
and was sure to spoil sooner or later. So Jack's main business was to
grow a field of fine pumpkins each year, and always before his old head
spoiled he would select a fresh pumpkin from the field and carve the
features on it very neatly, and have it ready to replace the old head
whenever it became necessary. He didn't always carve it the same way,
so his friends never knew exactly what sort of an expression they would
find on his face. But there was no mistaking him, because he was the
only pumpkin-headed man alive in the Land of Oz.

A one-legged sailor-man was a member of Ozma's council. His name was
Cap'n Bill and he had come to the Land of Oz with Trot, and had been
made welcome on account of his cleverness, honesty and good nature. He
wore a wooden leg to replace the one he had lost and was a great friend
of all the children in Oz because he could whittle all sorts of toys
out of wood with his big jack-knife.

Professor H. M. Wogglebug, T. E., was another member of the council.
The "H. M." meant Highly Magnified, for the Professor was once a little
bug, who became magnified to the size of a man and always remained so.
The "T. E." meant that he was Thoroughly Educated. He was at the head
of Princess Ozma's Royal Athletic College, and so that the students
would not have to study and so lose much time that could be devoted to
athletic sports, such as football, baseball and the like, Professor
Wogglebug had invented the famous Educational Pills. If one of the
college students took a Geography Pill after breakfast, he knew his
geography lesson in an instant; if he took a Spelling Pill he at once
knew his spelling lesson, and an Arithmetic Pill enabled the student to
do any kind of sum without having to think about it.

These useful pills made the college very popular and taught the boys
and girls of Oz their lessons in the easiest possible way. In spite of
this, Professor Wogglebug was not a favorite outside his college, for
he was very conceited and admired himself so much and displayed his
cleverness and learning so constantly, that no one cared to associate
with him. Ozma found him of value in her councils, nevertheless.

Perhaps the most splendidly dressed of all those present was a great
frog as large as a man, called the Frogman, who was noted for his wise
sayings. He had come to the Emerald City from the Yip Country of Oz and
was a guest of honor. His long-tailed coat was of velvet, his vest of
satin and his trousers of finest silk. There were diamond buckles on
his shoes and he carried a gold-headed cane and a high silk hat. All of
the bright colors were represented in his rich attire, so it tired
one's eyes to look at him for long, until one became used to his
splendor.

The best farmer in all Oz was Uncle Henry, who was Dorothy's own uncle,
and who now lived near the Emerald City with his wife Aunt Em. Uncle
Henry taught the Oz people how to grow the finest vegetables and fruits
and grains and was of much use to Ozma in keeping the Royal Storehouses
well filled. He, too, was a counsellor.

The reason I mention the little Wizard of Oz last is because he was the
most important man in the Land of Oz. He wasn't a big man in size but
he was a man in power and intelligence and second only to Glinda the
Good in all the mystic arts of magic. Glinda had taught him, and the
Wizard and the Sorceress were the only ones in Oz permitted by law to
practice wizardry and sorcery, which they applied only to good uses and
for the benefit of the people.

The Wizard wasn't exactly handsome but he was pleasant to look at. His
bald head was as shiny as if it had been varnished; there was always a
merry twinkle in his eyes and he was as spry as a schoolboy.  Dorothy
says the reason the Wizard is not as powerful as Glinda is because
Glinda didn't teach him all she knows, but what the Wizard knows he
knows very well and so he performs some very remarkable magic. The ten
I have mentioned assembled, with the Scarecrow and Glinda, in Ozma's
throne room, right after dinner that evening, and the Sorceress told
them all she knew of the plight of Ozma and Dorothy.

"Of course we must rescue them," she continued, "and the sooner they
are rescued the better pleased they will be; but what we must now
determine is how they can be saved. That is why I have called you
together in council."

"The easiest way," remarked the Shaggy Man, "is to raise the sunken
island of the Skeezers to the top of the water again."

"Tell me how?" said Glinda.

"I don't know how, your Highness, for I have never raised a sunken
island."

"We might all get under it and lift," suggested Professor Wogglebug.

"How can we get under it when it rests on the bottom of the lake?"
asked the Sorceress.

"Couldn't we throw a rope around it and pull it ashore?" inquired Jack
Pumpkinhead.

"Why not pump the water out of the lake?" suggested the Patchwork Girl
with a laugh.

"Do be sensible!" pleaded Glinda. "This is a serious matter, and we
must give it serious thought."

"How big is the lake and how big is the island?" was the Frogman's
question.

"None of us can tell, for we have not been there."

"In that case," said the Scarecrow, "it appears to me we ought to go to
the Skeezer country and examine it carefully."

"Quite right," agreed the Tin Woodman.

"We-will-have-to-go-there-any-how," remarked Tik-Tok in his jerky
machine voice.

"The question is which of us shall go, and how many of us?" said the
Wizard.

"I shall go of course," declared the Scarecrow.

"And I," said Scraps.

"It is my duty to Ozma to go," asserted the Tin Woodman.

"I could not stay away, knowing our loved Princess is in danger," said
the Wizard.

"We all feel like that," Uncle Henry said.

Finally one and all present decided to go to the Skeezer country, with
Glinda and the little Wizard to lead them. Magic must meet magic in
order to conquer it, so these two skillful magic-workers were necessary
to insure the success of the expedition.

They were all ready to start at a moment's notice, for none had any
affairs of importance to attend to. Jack was wearing a newly made
Pumpkin-head and the Scarecrow had recently been stuffed with fresh
straw. Tik-Tok's machinery was in good running order and the Tin
Woodman always was well oiled.

"It is quite a long journey," said Glinda, "and while I might travel
quickly to the Skeezer country by means of my stork chariot the rest of
you will be obliged to walk. So, as we must keep together, I will send
my chariot back to my castle and we will plan to leave the Emerald City
at sunrise to-morrow."




Chapter Fifteen

The Great Sorceress


Betsy and Trot, when they heard of the rescue expedition, begged the
Wizard to permit them to join it and he consented. The Glass Cat,
overhearing the conversation, wanted to go also and to this the Wizard
made no objection.

This Glass Cat was one of the real curiosities of Oz. It had been made
and brought to life by a clever magician named Dr. Pipt, who was not
now permitted to work magic and was an ordinary citizen of the Emerald
City. The cat was of transparent glass, through which one could plainly
see its ruby heart beating and its pink brains whirling around in the
top of the head.

The Glass Cat's eyes were emeralds; its fluffy tail was of spun glass
and very beautiful. The ruby heart, while pretty to look at, was hard
and cold and the Glass Cat's disposition was not pleasant at all times.
It scorned to catch mice, did not eat, and was extremely lazy. If you
complimented the remarkable cat on her beauty, she would be very
friendly, for she loved admiration above everything. The pink brains
were always working and their owner was indeed more intelligent than
most common cats.

Three other additions to the rescue party were made the next morning,
just as they were setting out upon their journey. The first was a
little boy called Button Bright, because he had no other name that
anyone could remember. He was a fine, manly little fellow, well
mannered and good humored, who had only one bad fault. He was
continually getting lost. To be sure, Button Bright got found as often
as he got lost, but when he was missing his friends could not help
being anxious about him.

"Some day," predicted the Patchwork Girl, "he won't be found, and that
will be the last of him." But that didn't worry Button Bright, who was
so careless that he did not seem to be able to break the habit of
getting lost.

The second addition to the party was a Munchkin boy of about Button
Bright's age, named Ojo. He was often called "Ojo the Lucky," because
good fortune followed him wherever he went. He and Button Bright were
close friends, although of such different natures, and Trot and Betsy
were fond of both.

The third and last to join the expedition was an enormous lion, one of
Ozma's regular guardians and the most important and intelligent beast
in all Oz. He called himself the Cowardly Lion, saying that every
little danger scared him so badly that his heart thumped against his
ribs, but all who knew him knew that the Cowardly Lion's fears were
coupled with bravery and that however much he might be frightened he
summoned courage to meet every danger he encountered. Often he had
saved Dorothy and Ozma in times of peril, but afterward he moaned and
trembled and wept because he had been so scared.

"If Ozma needs help, I'm going to help her," said the great beast.
"Also, I suspect the rest of you may need me on the journey--especially
Trot and Betsy--for you may pass through a dangerous part of the
country. I know that wild Gillikin country pretty well. Its forests
harbor many ferocious beasts."

They were glad the Cowardly Lion was to join them, and in good spirits
the entire party formed a procession and marched out of the Emerald
City amid the shouts of the people, who wished them success and a safe
return with their beloved Ruler.

They followed a different route from that taken by Ozma and Dorothy,
for they went through the Winkie Country and up north toward Oogaboo.
But before they got there they swerved to the left and entered the
Great Gillikin Forest, the nearest thing to a wilderness in all Oz.
Even the Cowardly Lion had to admit that certain parts of this forest
were unknown to him, although he had often wandered among the trees,
and the Scarecrow and Tin Woodman, who were great travelers, never had
been there at all.

The forest was only reached after a tedious tramp, for some of the
Rescue Expedition were quite awkward on their feet. The Patchwork Girl
was as light as a feather and very spry; the Tin Woodman covered the
ground as easily as Uncle Henry and the Wizard; but Tik-Tok moved
slowly and the slightest obstruction in the road would halt him until
the others cleared it away. Then, too, Tik-Tok's machinery kept running
down, so Betsy and Trot took turns in winding it up.

The Scarecrow was more clumsy but less bother, for although he often
stumbled and fell he could scramble up again and a little patting of
his straw-stuffed body would put him in good shape again.

Another awkward one was Jack Pumpkinhead, for walking would jar his
head around on his neck and then he would be likely to go in the wrong
direction. But the Frogman took Jack's arm and then he followed the
path more easily.

Cap'n Bill's wooden leg didn't prevent him from keeping up with the
others and the old sailor could walk as far as any of them.

When they entered the forest the Cowardly Lion took the lead. There was
no path here for men, but many beasts had made paths of their own which
only the eyes of the Lion, practiced in woodcraft, could discern. So he
stalked ahead and wound his way in and out, the others following in
single file, Glinda being next to the Lion.

There are dangers in the forest, of course, but as the huge Lion headed
the party he kept the wild denizens of the wilderness from bothering
the travelers. Once, to be sure, an enormous leopard sprang upon the
Glass Cat and caught her in his powerful jaws, but he broke several of
his teeth and with howls of pain and dismay dropped his prey and
vanished among the trees.

"Are you hurt?" Trot anxiously inquired of the Glass Cat.

"How silly!" exclaimed the creature in an irritated tone of voice;
"nothing can hurt glass, and I'm too solid to break easily. But I'm
annoyed at that leopard's impudence. He has no respect for beauty or
intelligence. If he had noticed my pink brains work, I'm sure he would
have realized I'm too important to be grabbed in a wild beast's jaws."

"Never mind," said Trot consolingly; "I'm sure he won't do it again."

They were almost in the center of the forest when Ojo, the Munchkin
boy, suddenly said: "Why, where's Button Bright?"

They halted and looked around them. Button Bright was not with the
party.

"Dear me," remarked Betsy, "I expect he's lost again!"

"When did you see him last, Ojo?" inquired Glinda.

"It was some time ago," replied Ojo. "He was trailing along at the end
and throwing twigs at the squirrels in the trees. Then I went to talk
to Betsy and Trot, and just now I noticed he was gone."

"This is too bad," declared the Wizard, "for it is sure to delay our
journey. We must find Button Bright before we go any farther, for this
forest is full of ferocious beasts that would not hesitate to tear the
boy to pieces."

"But what shall we do?" asked the Scarecrow. "If any of us leaves the
party to search for Button Bright he or she might fall a victim to the
beasts, and if the Lion leaves us we will have no protector.

"The Glass Cat could go," suggested the Frogman. "The beasts can do her
no harm, as we have discovered."

The Wizard turned to Glinda.

"Cannot your sorcery discover where Button Bright is?" he asked.

"I think so," replied the Sorceress.

She called to Uncle Henry, who had been carrying her wicker box, to
bring it to her, and when he obeyed she opened it and drew out a small
round mirror. On the surface of the glass she dusted a white powder and
then wiped it away with her handkerchief and looked in the mirror. It
reflected a part of the forest, and there, beneath a wide-spreading
tree, Button Bright was lying asleep. On one side of him crouched a
tiger, ready to spring; on the other side was a big gray wolf, its
bared fangs glistening in a wicked way.

"Goodness me!" cried Trot, looking over Glinda's shoulder. "They'll
catch and kill him sure."

Everyone crowded around for a glimpse at the magic mirror.

"Pretty bad--pretty bad!" said the Scarecrow sorrowfully.

"Comes of getting lost!" said Cap'n Bill, sighing.

"Guess he's a goner!" said the Frogman, wiping his eyes on his purple
silk handkerchief.

"But where is he?  Can't we save him?" asked Ojo the Lucky.

"If we knew where he is we could probably save him," replied the little
Wizard, "but that tree looks so much like all the other trees, that we
can't tell whether it's far away or near by."

"Look at Glinda!" exclaimed Betsy

Glinda, having handed the mirror to the Wizard, had stepped aside and
was making strange passes with her outstretched arms and reciting in
low, sweet tones a mystical incantation. Most of them watched the
Sorceress with anxious eyes, despair giving way to the hope that she
might be able to save their friend. The Wizard, however, watched the
scene in the mirror, while over his shoulders peered Trot, the
Scarecrow and the Shaggy Man.

What they saw was more strange than Glinda's actions. The tiger started
to spring on the sleeping boy, but suddenly lost its power to move and
lay flat upon the ground. The gray wolf seemed unable to lift its feet
from the ground. It pulled first at one leg and then at another, and
finding itself strangely confined to the spot began to back and snarl
angrily. They couldn't hear the barkings and snarls, but they could see
the creature's mouth open and its thick lips move. Button Bright,
however, being but a few feet away from the wolf, heard its cries of
rage, which wakened him from his untroubled sleep. The boy sat up and
looked first at the tiger and then at the wolf. His face showed that
for a moment he was quite frightened, but he soon saw that the beasts
were unable to approach him and so he got upon his feet and examined
them curiously, with a mischievous smile upon his face. Then he
deliberately kicked the tiger's head with his foot and catching up a
fallen branch of a tree he went to the wolf and gave it a good
whacking. Both the beasts were furious at such treatment but could not
resent it.

Button Bright now threw down the stick and with his hands in his
pockets wandered carelessly away.

"Now," said Glinda, "let the Glass Cat run and find him. He is in that
direction," pointing the way, "but how far off I do not know. Make
haste and lead him back to us as quickly as you can."

The Glass Cat did not obey everyone's orders, but she really feared the
great Sorceress, so as soon as the words were spoken the crystal animal
darted away and was quickly lost to sight.

The Wizard handed the mirror back to Glinda, for the woodland scene had
now faded from the glass. Then those who cared to rest sat down to
await Button Bright's coming. It was not long before hye appeared
through the trees and as he rejoined his friends he said in a peevish
tone:

"Don't ever send that Glass Cat to find me again. She was very impolite
and, if we didn't all know that she had no manners, I'd say she
insulted me."

Glinda turned upon the boy sternly.

"You have caused all of us much anxiety and annoyance," said she. "Only
my magic saved you from destruction. I forbid you to get lost again."

"Of course," he answered. "It won't be my fault if I get lost again;
but it wasn't my fault this time."




Chapter Sixteen

The Enchanted Fishes


I must now tell you what happened to Ervic and the three other Skeezers
who were left floating in the iron boat after Queen Coo-ee-oh had been
transformed into a Diamond Swan by the magic of the Flathead Su-dic.

The four Skeezers were all young men and their leader was Ervic.
Coo-ee-oh had taken them with her in the boat to assist her if she
captured the Flathead chief, as she hoped to do by means of her silver
rope. They knew nothing about the witchcraft that moved the submarine
and so, when left floating upon the lake, were at a loss what to do.
The submarine could not be submerged by them or made to return to the
sunken island. There were neither oars nor sails in the boat, which was
not anchored but drifted quietly upon the surface of the lake.

The Diamond Swan had no further thought or care for her people. She had
sailed over to the other side of the lake and all the calls and
pleadings of Ervic and his companions were unheeded by the vain bird.
As there was nothing else for them to do, they sat quietly in their
boat and waited as patiently as they could for someone to come to their
aid.

The Flatheads had refused to help them and had gone back to their
mountain. All the Skeezers were imprisoned in the Great Dome and could
not help even themselves. When evening came, they saw the Diamond Swan,
still keeping to the opposite shore of the lake, walk out of the water
to the sands, shake her diamond-sprinkled feathers, and then disappear
among the bushes to seek a resting place for the night.

"I'm hungry," said Ervic.

"I'm cold," said another Skeezer.

"I'm tired," said a third.

"I'm afraid," said the last one of them.

But it did them no good to complain. Night fell and the moon rose and
cast a silvery sheen over the surface of the water.

"Go to sleep," said Ervic to his companions. "I'll stay awake and
watch, for we may be rescued in some unexpected way."

So the other three laid themselves down in the bottom of the boat and
were soon fast asleep.

Ervic watched. He rested himself by leaning over the bow of the boat,
his face near to the moonlit water, and thought dreamily of the day's
surprising events and wondered what would happen to the prisoners in
the Great Dome.

Suddenly a tiny goldfish popped its head above the surface of the lake,
not more than a foot from his eyes. A silverfish then raised its head
beside that of the goldfish, and a moment later a bronzefish lifted its
head beside the others. The three fish, all in a row, looked earnestly
with their round, bright eyes into the astonished eyes of Ervic the
Skeezer.

"We are the three Adepts whom Queen Coo-ee-oh betrayed and wickedly
transformed," said the goldfish, its voice low and soft but distinctly
heard in the stillness of the night.

"I know of our Queen's treacherous deed," replied Ervic, "and I am
sorry for your misfortune. Have you been in the lake ever since?"

"Yes," was the reply.

"I--I hope you are well--and comfortable," stammered Ervic, not knowing
what else to say.

"We knew that some day Coo-ee-oh would meet with the fate she so richly
deserves," declared the bronzefish. "We have waited and watched for
this time. Now if you will promise to help us and will be faithful and
true, you can aid us in regaining our natural forms, and save yourself
and all your people from the dangers that now threaten you."

"Well," said Ervic, "you can depend on my doing the best I can. But I'm
no witch, nor magician, you must know."

"All we ask is that you obey our instructions," returned the
silverfish. "We know that you are honest and that you served Coo-ee-oh
only because you were obliged to in order to escape her anger. Do as we
command and all will be well."

"I promise!" exclaimed the young man. "Tell me what I am to do first."

"You will find in the bottom of your boat the silver cord which dropped
from Coo-ee-oh's hand when she was transformed," said the goldfish.
"Tie one end of that cord to the bow of your boat and drop the other
end to us in the water. Together we will pull your boat to the shore."

Ervic much doubted that the three small fishes could move so heavy a
boat, but he did as he was told and the fishes all seized their end of
the silver cord in their mouths and headed toward the nearest shore,
which was the very place where the Flatheads had stood when they
conquered Queen Coo-ee-oh.

At first the boat did not move at all, although the fishes pulled with
all their strength. But presently the strain began to tell. Very slowly
the boat crept toward the shore, gaining more speed at every moment. A
couple of yards away from the sandy beach the fishes dropped the cord
from their mouths and swam to one side, while the iron boat, being now
under way, continued to move until its prow grated upon the sands.

Ervic leaned over the side and said to the fishes: "What next?"

"You will find upon the sand," said the silverfish, "a copper kettle,
which the Su-dic forgot when he went away. Cleanse it thoroughly in the
water of the lake, for it has had poison in it. When it is cleaned,
fill it with fresh water and hold it over the side of the boat, so that
we three may swim into the kettle. We will then instruct you further."

"Do you wish me to catch you, then?" asked Ervic in surprise.

"Yes," was the reply.

So Ervic jumped out of the boat and found the copper kettle. Carrying
it a little way down the beach, he washed it well, scrubbing away every
drop of the poison it had contained with sand from the shore.

Then he went back to the boat.

Ervic's comrades were still sound asleep and knew nothing of the three
fishes or what strange happenings were taking place about them. Ervic
dipped the kettle in the lake, holding fast to the handle until it was
under water. The gold and silver and bronze fishes promptly swam into
the kettle. The young Skeezer then lifted it, poured out a little of
the water so it would not spill over the edge, and said to the fishes:
"What next?"

"Carry the kettle to the shore. Take one hundred steps to the east,
along the edge of the lake, and then you will see a path leading
through the meadows, up hill and down dale. Follow the path until you
come to a cottage which is painted a purple color with white trimmings.
When you stop at the gate of this cottage we will tell you what to do
next. Be careful, above all, not to stumble and spill the water from
the kettle, or you would destroy us and all you have done would be in
vain."

The goldfish issued these commands and Ervic promised to be careful and
started to obey. He left his sleeping comrades in the boat, stepping
cautiously over their bodies, and on reaching the shore took exactly
one hundred steps to the east. Then he looked for the path and the
moonlight was so bright that he easily discovered it, although it was
hidden from view by tall weeds until one came full upon it. This path
was very narrow and did not seem to be much used, but it was quite
distinct and Ervic had no difficulty in following it. He walked through
a broad meadow, covered with tall grass and weeds, up a hill and down
into a valley and then up another hill and down again.

It seemed to Ervic that he had walked miles and miles. Indeed the moon
sank low and day was beginning to dawn when finally he discovered by
the roadside a pretty little cottage, painted purple with white
trimmings. It was a lonely place--no other buildings were anywhere
about and the ground was not tilled at all. No farmer lived here, that
was certain. Who would care to dwell in such an isolated place?

But Ervic did not bother his head long with such questions. He went up
to the gate that led to the cottage, set the copper kettle carefully
down and bending over it asked:

"What next?"




Chapter Seventeen

Under the Great Dome


When Glinda the Good and her followers of the Rescue Expedition came in
sight of the Enchanted Mountain of the Flatheads, it was away to the
left of them, for the route they had taken through the Great Forest was
some distance from that followed by Ozma and Dorothy.

They halted awhile to decide whether they should call upon the Supreme
Dictator first, or go on to the Lake of the Skeezers.

"If we go to the mountain," said the Wizard, "we may get into trouble
with that wicked Su-dic, and then we would be delayed in rescuing Ozma
and Dorothy. So I think our best plan will be to go to the Skeezer
Country, raise the sunken island and save our friends and the
imprisoned Skeezers. Afterward we can visit the mountain and punish the
cruel magician of the Flatheads."

"That is sensible," approved the Shaggy Man. "I quite agree with you."

The others, too, seemed to think the Wizard's plan the best, and Glinda
herself commended it, so on they marched toward the line of palm trees
that hid the Skeezers' lake from view.

Pretty soon they came to the palms. These were set closely together,
the branches, which came quite to the ground, being so tightly
interlaced that even the Glass Cat could scarcely find a place to
squeeze through. The path which the Flatheads used was some distance
away.

"Here's a job for the Tin Woodman," said the Scarecrow.

So the Tin Woodman, who was always glad to be of use, set to work with
his sharp, gleaming axe, which he always carried, and in a surprisingly
short time had chopped away enough branches to permit them all to pass
easily through the trees.

Now the clear waters of the beautiful lake were before them and by
looking closely they could see the outlines of the Great Dome of the
sunken island, far from shore and directly in the center of the lake.

Of course every eye was at first fixed upon this dome, where Ozma and
Dorothy and the Skeezers were still fast prisoners. But soon their
attention was caught by a more brilliant sight, for here was the
Diamond Swan swimming just before them, its long neck arched proudly,
the amethyst eyes gleaming and all the diamond-sprinkled feathers
glistening splendidly under the rays of the sun.

"That," said Glinda, "is the transformation of Queen Coo-ce-oh, the
haughty and wicked witch who betrayed the three Adepts at Magic and
treated her people like slaves."

"She's wonderfully beautiful now," remarked the Frogman.

"It doesn't seem like much of a punishment," said Trot. "The Flathead
Su-dic ought to have made her a toad."

"I am sure Coo-ee-oh is punished," said Glinda, "for she has lost all
her magic power and her grand palace and can no longer misrule the poor
Skeezers."

"Let us call to her, and hear what she has to say," proposed the Wizard.

So Glinda beckoned the Diamond Swan, which swam gracefully to a
position near them. Before anyone could speak Coo-ee-oh called to them
in a rasping voice--for the voice of a swan is always harsh and
unpleasant--and said with much pride:

"Admire me, Strangers!  Admire the lovely Coo-ee-oh, the handsomest
creature in all Oz. Admire me!"

"Handsome is as handsome does," replied the Scarecrow. "Are your deeds
lovely, Coo-ce-oh?"

"Deeds?  What deeds can a swan do but swim around and give pleasure to
all beholders?" said the sparkling bird.

"Have you forgotten your former life? Have you forgotten your magic and
witchcraft?" inquired the Wizard.

"Magic--witchcraft? Pshaw, who cares for such silly things?" retorted
Coo-ee-oh. "As for my past life, it seems like an unpleasant dream. I
wouldn't go back to it if I could. Don't you admire my beauty,
Strangers?"

"Tell us, Coo-ee-oh," said Glinda earnestly, "if you can recall enough
of your witchcraft to enable us to raise the sunken island to the
surface of the lake. Tell us that and I'll give you a string of pearls
to wear around your neck and add to your beauty."

"Nothing can add to my beauty, for I'm the most beautiful creature
anywhere in the whole world."

"But how can we raise the island?"

"I don't know and I don't care. If ever I knew I've forgotten, and I'm
glad of it," was the response. "Just watch me circle around and see me
glitter!

"It's no use," said Button Bright; "the old Swan is too much in love
with herself to think of anything else."

"That's a fact," agreed Betsy with a sigh; "but we've got to get Ozma
and Dorothy out of that lake, somehow or other."

"And we must do it in our own way," added the Scarecrow.

"But how?" asked Uncle Henry in a grave voice, for he could not bear to
think of his dear niece Dorothy being out there under water; "how shall
we do it?"

"Leave that to Glinda," advised the Wizard, realizing he was helpless
to do it himself.

"If it were just an ordinary sunken island," said the powerful
sorceress, "there would be several ways by which I might bring it to
the surface again. But this is a Magic Isle, and by some curious art of
witchcraft, unknown to any but Queen Coo-ce-oh, it obeys certain
commands of magic and will not respond to any other. I do not despair
in the least, but it will require some deep study to solve this
difficult problem. If the Swan could only remember the witchcraft that
she invented and knew as a woman, I could force her to tell me the
secret, but all her former knowledge is now forgotten."

"It seems to me," said the Wizard after a brief silence had followed
Glinda's speech, "that there are three fishes in this lake that used to
be Adepts at Magic and from whom Coo-ee-oh stole much of her knowledge.
If we could find those fishes and return them to their former shapes,
they could doubtless tell us what to do to bring the sunken island to
the surface."

"I have thought of those fishes," replied Glinda, "but among so many
fishes as this lake contains how are we to single them out?"

You will understand, of course, that had Glinda been at home in her
castle, where the Great Book of Records was, she would have known that
Ervic the Skeezer already had taken the gold and silver and bronze
fishes from the lake. But that act had been recorded in the Book after
Glinda had set out on this journey, so it was all unknown to her.

"I think I see a boat yonder on the shore," said Ojo the Munchkin boy,
pointing to a place around the edge of the lake. "If we could get that
boat and row all over the lake, calling to the magic fishes, we might
be able to find them."

"Let us go to the boat," said the Wizard.

They walked around the lake to where the boat was stranded upon the
beach, but found it empty. It was a mere shell of blackened steel, with
a collapsible roof that, when in position, made the submarine
watertight, but at present the roof rested in slots on either side of
the magic craft. There were no oars or sails, no machinery to make the
boat go, and although Glinda promptly realized it was meant to be
operated by witchcraft, she was not acquainted with that sort of magic.

"However," said she, "the boat is merely a boat, and I believe I can
make it obey a command of sorcery, as well as it did the command of
witchcraft. After I have given a little thought to the matter, the boat
will take us wherever we desire to go."

"Not all of us," returned the Wizard, "for it won't hold so many. But,
most noble Sorceress, provided you can make the boat go, of what use
will it be to us?"

"Can't we use it to catch the three fishes?" asked Button Bright.

"It will not be necessary to use the boat for that purpose," replied
Glinda. "Wherever in the lake the enchanted fishes may be, they will
answer to my call. What I am trying to discover is how the boat came to
be on this shore, while the island on which it belongs is under water
yonder. Did Coo-ee-oh come here in the boat to meet the Flatheads
before the island was sunk, or afterward?"

No one could answer that question, of course; but while they pondered
the matter three young men advanced from the line of trees, and rather
timidly bowed to the strangers.

"Who are you, and where did you come from?" inquired the Wizard.

"We are Skeezers," answered one of them, "and our home is on the Magic
Isle of the Lake. We ran away when we saw you coming, and hid behind
the trees, but as you are Strangers and seem to be friendly we decided
to meet you, for we are in great trouble and need assistance."

"If you belong on the island, why are you here?" demanded Glinda.

So they told her all the story: How the Queen had defied the Flatheads
and submerged the whole island so that her enemies could not get to it
or destroy it; how, when the Flatheads came to the shore, Coo-ee-oh had
commanded them, together with their friend Ervic, to go with her in the
submarine to conquer the Su-dic, and how the boat had shot out from the
basement of the sunken isle, obeying a magic word, and risen to the
surface, where it opened and floated upon the water.

Then followed the account of how the Su-dic had transformed Coo-ee-oh
into a swan, after which she had forgotten all the witchcraft she ever
knew. The young men told how, in the night when they were asleep, their
comrade Ervic had mysteriously disappeared, while the boat in some
strange manner had floated to the shore and stranded upon the beach.

That was all they knew. They had searched in vain for three days for
Ervic. As their island was under water and they could not get back to
it, the three Skeezers had no place to go, and so had waited patiently
beside their boat for something to happen.

Being questioned by Glinda and the Wizard, they told all they knew
about Ozma and Dorothy and declared the two girls were still in the
village under the Great Dome. They were quite safe and would be well
cared for by Lady Aurex, now that the Queen who opposed them was out of
the way.

When they had gleaned all the information they could from these
Skeezers, the Wizard said to Glinda:

"If you find you can make this boat obey your sorcery, you could have
it return to the island, submerge itself, and enter the door in the
basement from which it came. But I cannot see that our going to the
sunken island would enable our friends to escape. We would only Join
them as prisoners."

"Not so, friend Wizard," replied Glinda. "If the boat would obey my
commands to enter the basement door, it would also obey my commands to
come out again, and I could bring Ozma and Dorothy back with me."

"And leave all of our people still imprisoned?" asked one of the
Skeezers reproachfully.

"By making several trips in the boat, Glinda could fetch all your
people to the shore," replied the Wizard.

"But what could they do then?" inquired another Skeezer. "They would
have no homes and no place to go, and would be at the mercy of their
enemies, the Flatheads."

"That is true," said Glinda the Good. "And as these people are Ozma's
subjects, I think she would refuse to escape with Dorothy and leave the
others behind, or to abandon the island which is the lawful home of the
Skeezers. I believe the best plan will be to summon the three fishes
and learn from them how to raise the island."

The little Wizard seemed to think that this was rather a forlorn hope.

"How will you summon them," he asked the lovely Sorceress, "and how can
they hear you?"

"That is something we must consider carefully," responded stately
Glinda, with a serene smile.  "I think I can find a way."

All of Ozma's counsellors applauded this sentiment, for they knew well
the powers of the Sorceress.

"Very well," agreed the Wizard. "Summon them, most noble Glinda."




Chapter Eighteen

The Cleverness of Ervic


We must now return to Ervic the Skeezer, who, when he had set down the
copper kettle containing the three fishes at the gate of the lonely
cottage, had asked, "What next?"

The goldfish stuck its head above the water in the kettle and said in
its small but distinct voice:

"You are to lift the latch, open the door, and walk boldly into the
cottage. Do not be afraid of anything you see, for however you seem to
be threatened with dangers, nothing can harm you. The cottage is the
home of a powerful Yookoohoo, named Reera the Red, who assumes all
sorts of forms, sometimes changing her form several times in a day,
according to her fancy. What her real form may be we do not know. This
strange creature cannot be bribed with treasure, or coaxed through
friendship, or won by pity. She has never assisted anyone, or done
wrong to anyone, that we know of. All her wonderful powers are used for
her own selfish amusement. She will order you out of the house but you
must refuse to go. Remain and watch Reera closely and try to see what
she uses to accomplish her transformations. If you can discover the
secret whisper it to us and we will then tell you what to do next."

"That sounds easy," returned Ervic, who had listened carefully. "But
are you sure she will not hurt me, or try to transform me?"

"She may change your form," replied the goldfish, "but do not worry if
that happens, for we can break that enchantment easily. You may be sure
that nothing will harm you, so you must not be frightened at anything
you see or hear."

Now Ervic was as brave as any ordinary young man, and he knew the
fishes who spoke to him were truthful and to be relied upon,
nevertheless he experienced a strange sinking of the heart as he picked
up the kettle and approached the door of the cottage. His hand trembled
as he raised the latch, but he was resolved to obey his instructions.
He pushed the door open, took three strides into the middle of the one
room the cottage contained, and then stood still and looked around him.

The sights that met his gaze were enough to frighten anyone who had not
been properly warned. On the floor just before Ervic lay a great
crocodile, its red eyes gleaming wickedly and its wide open mouth
displaying rows of sharp teeth. Horned toads hopped about; each of the
four upper corners of the room was festooned with a thick cobweb, in
the center of which sat a spider as big around as a washbasin, and
armed with pincher-like claws; a red-and-green lizard was stretched at
full length on the window-sill and black rats darted in and out of the
holes they had gnawed in the floor of the cottage.

But the most startling thing was a huge gray ape which sat upon a bench
and knitted. It wore a lace cap, such as old ladies wear, and a little
apron of lace, but no other clothing. Its eyes were bright and looked
as if coals were burning in them. The ape moved as naturally as an
ordinary person might, and on Ervic's entrance stopped knitting and
raised its head to look at him.

"Get out!" cried a sharp voice, seeming to come from the ape's mouth.

Ervic saw another bench, empty, just beyond him, so he stepped over the
crocodile, sat down upon the bench and carefully placed the kettle
beside him.

"Get out!" again cried the voice.

Ervic shook his head.

"No," said he, "I'm going to stay."

The spiders left their four corners, dropped to the floor and made a
rush toward the young Skeezer, circling around his legs with their
pinchers extended. Ervic paid no attention to them. An enormous black
rat ran up Ervic's body, passed around his shoulders and uttered
piercing squeals in his ears, but he did not wince. The green-and-red
lizard, coming from the window-sill, approached Ervic and began
spitting a flaming fluid at him, but Ervic merely stared at the
creature and its flame did not touch him.

The crocodile raised its tail and, swinging around, swept Ervic off the
bench with a powerful blow. But the Skeezer managed to save the kettle
from upsetting and he got up, shook off the horned toads that were
crawling over him and resumed his seat on the bench.

All the creatures, after this first attack, remained motionless, as if
awaiting orders. The old gray ape knitted on, not looking toward Ervic
now, and the young Skeezer stolidly kept his seat. He expected
something else to happen, but nothing did. A full hour passed and Ervic
was growing nervous.

"What do you want?" the ape asked at last.

"Nothing," said Ervic.

"You may have that!" retorted the ape, and at this all the strange
creatures in the room broke into a chorus of cackling laughter.

Another long wait.

"Do you know who I am?" questioned the ape.

"You must be Reera the Red--the Yookoohoo," Ervic answered.

"Knowing so much, you must also know that I do not like strangers. Your
presence here in my home annoys me. Do you not fear my anger?"

"No," said the young man.

"Do you intend to obey me, and leave this house?" "No," replied Ervic,
just as quietly as the Yookoohoo had spoken.

The ape knitted for a long time before resuming the conversation.

"Curiosity," it said, "has led to many a man's undoing. I suppose in
some way you have learned that I do tricks of magic, and so through
curiosity you have come here. You may have been told that I do not
injure anyone, so you are bold enough to disobey my commands to go
away. You imagine that you may witness some of the rites of witchcraft,
and that they may amuse you. Have I spoken truly?"

"Well," remarked Ervic, who had been pondering on the strange
circumstances of his coming here, "you are right in some ways, but not
in others. I am told that you work magic only for your own amusement.
That seems to me very selfish. Few people understand magic. I'm told
that you are the only real Yookoohoo in all Oz. Why don't you amuse
others as well as yourself?"

"What right have you to question my actions?"

"None at all."

"And you say you are not here to demand any favors of me?"

"For myself I want nothing from you."

"You are wise in that. I never grant favors."

"That doesn't worry me," declared Ervic.

"But you are curious? You hope to witness some of my magic
transformations?"

"If you wish to perform any magic, go ahead," said Ervic. "It may
interest me and it may not. If you'd rather go on with your knitting,
it's all the same to me. I am in no hurry at all."

This may have puzzled Red Reera, but the face beneath the lace cap
could show no expression, being covered with hair. Perhaps in all her
career the Yookoohoo had never been visited by anyone who, like this
young man, asked for nothing, expected nothing, and had no reason for
coming except curiosity. This attitude practically disarmed the witch
and she began to regard the Skeezer in a more friendly way. She knitted
for some time, seemingly in deep thought, and then she arose and walked
to a big cupboard that stood against the wall of the room. When the
cupboard door was opened Ervic could see a lot of drawers inside, and
into one of these drawers--the second from the bottom--Reera thrust a
hairy hand.

Until now Ervic could see over the bent form of the ape, but suddenly
the form, with its back to him, seemed to straighten up and blot out
the cupboard of drawers. The ape had changed to the form of a woman,
dressed in the pretty Gillikin costume, and when she turned around he
saw that it was a young woman, whose face was quite attractive.

"Do you like me better this way?" Reera inquired with a smile.

"You look better," he said calmly, "but I'm not sure I like you any
better."

She laughed, saying: "During the heat of the day I like to be an ape,
for an ape doesn't wear any clothes to speak of. But if one has
gentlemen callers it is proper to dress up."

Ervic noticed her right hand was closed, as if she held something in
it. She shut the cupboard door, bent over the crocodile and in a moment
the creature had changed to a red wolf. It was not pretty even now, and
the wolf crouched beside its mistress as a dog might have done. Its
teeth looked as dangerous as had those of the crocodile.

Next the Yookoohoo went about touching all the lizards and toads, and
at her touch they became kittens. The rats she changed into chipmunks.
Now the only horrid creatures remaining were the four great spiders,
which hid themselves behind their thick webs.

"There!" Reera cried, "now my cottage presents a more comfortable
appearance. I love the toads and lizards and rats, because most people
hate them, but I would tire of them if they always remained the same.
Sometimes I change their forms a dozen times a day."

"You are clever," said Ervic. "I did not hear you utter any
incantations or magic words. All you did was to touch the creatures."

"Oh, do you think so?" she replied. "Well, touch them yourself, if you
like, and see if you can change their forms."

"No," said the Skeezer, "I don't understand magic and if I did I would
not try to imitate your skill. You are a wonderful Yookoohoo, while I
am only a common Skeezer."

This confession seemed to please Reera, who liked to have her
witchcraft appreciated.

"Will you go away now?" she asked. "I prefer to be alone."

"I prefer to stay here," said Ervic.

"In another person's home, where you are not wanted?"

"Yes."

"Is not your curiosity yet satisfied?" demanded Reera, with a smile.

"I don't know. Is there anything else you can do?"

"Many things. But why should I exhibit my powers to a stranger?"

"I can think of no reason at all," he replied.

She looked at him curiously.

"You want no power for yourself, you say, and you're too stupid to be
able to steal my secrets. This isn't a pretty cottage, while outside
are sunshine, broad prairies and beautiful wildflowers. Yet you insist
on sitting on that bench and annoying me with your unwelcome presence.
What have you in that kettle?"

"Three fishes," he answered readily.

"Where did you get them?"

"I caught them in the Lake of the Skeezers."

"What do you intend to do with the fishes?"

"I shall carry them to the home of a friend of mine who has three
children. The children will love to have the fishes for pets."

She came over to the bench and looked into the kettle, where the three
fishes were swimming quietly in the water.

"They're pretty," said Reera. "Let me transform them into something
else."

"No," objected the Skeezer.

"I love to transform things; it's so interesting. And I've never
transformed any fishes in all my life."

"Let them alone," said Ervic.

"What shapes would you prefer them to have? I can make them turtles, or
cute little sea-horses; or I could make them piglets, or rabbits, or
guinea-pigs; or, if you like I can make chickens of them, or eagles, or
bluejays."

"Let them alone!" repeated Ervic.

"You're not a very pleasant visitor," laughed Red Reera. "People accuse
me of being cross and crabbed and unsociable, and they are quite right.
If you had come here pleading and begging for favors, and half afraid
of my Yookoohoo magic, I'd have abused you until you ran away; but
you're quite different from that. You're the unsociable and crabbed and
disagreeable one, and so I like you, and bear with your grumpiness.
It's time for my midday meal; are you hungry?"

"No," said Ervic, although he really desired food.

"Well, I am," Reera declared and clapped her hands together. Instantly
a table appeared, spread with linen and bearing dishes of various
foods, some smoking hot. There were two plates laid, one at each end of
the table, and as soon as Reera seated herself all her creatures
gathered around her, as if they were accustomed to be fed when she ate.
The wolf squatted at her right hand and the kittens and chipmunks
gathered at her left.

"Come, Stranger, sit down and eat," she called cheerfully, "and while
we're eating let us decide into what forms we shall change your fishes."

"They're all right as they are," asserted Ervic, drawing up his bench
to the table. "The fishes are beauties--one gold, one silver and one
bronze. Nothing that has life is more lovely than a beautiful fish."

"What! Am I not more lovely?" Reera asked, smiling at his serious face.

"I don't object to you--for a Yookoohoo, you know," he said, helping
himself to the food and eating with good appetite.

"And don't you consider a beautiful girl more lovely than a fish,
however pretty the fish may be?"

"Well," replied Ervic, after a period of thought, "that might be. If
you transformed my three fish into three girls--girls who would be
Adepts at Magic, you know they might please me as well as the fish do.
You won't do that of course, because you can't, with all your skill.
And, should you be able to do so, I fear my troubles would be more than
I could bear. They would not consent to be my slaves--especially if
they were Adepts at Magic--and so they would command me to obey them.
No, Mistress Reera, let us not transform the fishes at all."

The Skeezer had put his case with remarkable cleverness. He realized
that if he appeared anxious for such a transformation the Yookoohoo
would not perform it, yet he had skillfully suggested that they be made
Adepts at Magic.




Chapter Nineteen

Red Reera, the Yookoohoo


After the meal was over and Reera had fed her pets, including the four
monster spiders which had come down from their webs to secure their
share, she made the table disappear from the floor of the cottage.

"I wish you'd consent to my transforming your fishes," she said, as she
took up her knitting again.

The Skeezer made no reply. He thought it unwise to hurry matters. All
during the afternoon they sat silent. Once Reera went to her cupboard
and after thrusting her hand into the same drawer as before, touched
the wolf and transformed it into a bird with gorgeous colored feathers.
This bird was larger than a parrot and of a somewhat different form,
but Ervic had never seen one like it before.

"Sing!" said Reera to the bird, which had perched itself on a big
wooden peg--as if it had been in the cottage before and knew just what
to do.

And the bird sang jolly, rollicking songs with words to them--just as a
person who had been carefully trained might do. The songs were
entertaining and Ervic enjoyed listening to them. In an hour or so the
bird stopped singing, tucked its head under its wing and went to sleep.
Reera continued knitting but seemed thoughtful.

Now Ervic had marked this cupboard drawer well and had concluded that
Reera took something from it which enabled her to perform her
transformations. He thought that if he managed to remain in the
cottage, and Reera fell asleep, he could slyly open the cupboard, take
a portion of whatever was in the drawer, and by dropping it into the
copper kettle transform the three fishes into their natural shapes.
Indeed, he had firmly resolved to carry out this plan when the
Yookoohoo put down her knitting and walked toward the door.

"I'm going out for a few minutes," said she; "do you wish to go with
me, or will you remain here?"

Ervic did not answer but sat quietly on his bench. So Reera went out
and closed the cottage door.

As soon as she was gone, Ervic rose and tiptoed to the cupboard.

"Take care! Take care!" cried several voices, coming from the kittens
and chipmunks. "If you touch anything we'll tell the Yookoohoo!"

Ervic hesitated a moment but, remembering that he need not consider
Reera's anger if he succeeded in transforming the fishes, he was about
to open the cupboard when he was arrested by the voices of the fishes,
which stuck their heads above the water in the kettle and called out:

"Come here, Ervic!"

So he went back to the kettle and bent over it

"Let the cupboard alone," said the goldfish to him earnestly. "You
could not succeed by getting that magic powder, for only the Yookoohoo
knows how to use it. The best way is to allow her to transform us into
three girls, for then we will have our natural shapes and be able to
perform all the Arts of Magic we have learned and well understand. You
are acting wisely and in the most effective manner. We did not know you
were so intelligent, or that Reera could be so easily deceived by you.
Continue as you have begun and try to persuade her to transform us. But
insist that we be given the forms of girls."

The goldfish ducked its head down just as Reera re-entered the cottage.
She saw Ervic bent over the kettle, so she came and joined him.

"Can your fishes talk?" she asked.

"Sometimes," he replied, "for all fishes in the Land of Oz know how to
speak. Just now they were asking me for some bread. They are hungry."

"Well, they can have some bread," said Reera. "But it is nearly
supper-time, and if you would allow me to transform your fishes into
girls they could join us at the table and have plenty of food much
nicer than crumbs. Why not let me transform them?"

"Well," said Ervic, as if hesitating, "ask the fishes. If they consent,
why--why, then, I'll think it over."

Reera bent over the kettle and asked:

"Can you hear me, little fishes?"

All three popped their heads above water.

"We can hear you," said the bronzefish.

"I want to give you other forms, such as rabbits, or turtles or girls,
or something; but your master, the surly Skeezer, does not wish me to.
However, he has agreed to the plan if you will consent."

"We'd like to be girls," said the silverfish.

"No, no!" exclaimed Ervic.

"If you promise to make us three beautiful girls, we will consent,"
said the goldfish.

"No, no!" exclaimed Ervic again.

"Also make us Adepts at Magic," added the bronzefish.

"I don't know exactly what that means," replied Reera musingly, "but as
no Adept at Magic is as powerful as Yookoohoo, I'll add that to the
transformation."

"We won't try to harm you, or to interfere with your magic in any way,"
promised the goldfish. "On the contrary, we will be your friends."

"Will you agree to go away and leave me alone in my cottage, whenever I
command you to do so?" asked Reera.

"We promise that," cried the three fishes.

"Don't do it! Don't consent to the transformation," urged Ervic.

"They have already consented," said the Yookoohoo, laughing in his
face, "and you have promised me to abide by their decision. So, friend
Skeezer, I shall perform the transformation whether you like it or not."

Ervic seated himself on the bench again, a deep scowl on his face but
joy in his heart. Reera moved over to the cupboard, took something from
the drawer and returned to the copper kettle. She was clutching
something tightly in her right hand, but with her left she reached
within the kettle, took out the three fishes and laid them carefully on
the floor, where they gasped in distress at being out of water.

Reera did not keep them in misery more than a few seconds, for she
touched each one with her right hand and instantly the fishes were
transformed into three tall and slender young women, with fine,
intelligent faces and clothed in handsome, clinging gowns. The one who
had been a goldfish had beautiful golden hair and blue eyes and was
exceedingly fair of skin; the one who had been a bronzefish had dark
brown hair and clear gray eyes and her complexion matched these lovely
features. The one who had been a silverfish had snow-white hair of the
finest texture and deep brown eyes. The hair contrasted exquisitely
with her pink cheeks and ruby-red lips, nor did it make her look a day
older than her two companions.

As soon as they secured these girlish shapes, all three bowed low to
the Yookoohoo and said:

"We thank you, Reera."

Then they bowed to the Skeezer and said:

"We thank you, Ervic."

"Very good!" cried the Yookoohoo, examining her work with critical
approval. "You are much better and more interesting than fishes, and
this ungracious Skeezer would scarcely allow me to do the
transformations. You surely have nothing to thank him for. But now let
us dine in honor of the occasion."

She clapped her hands together and again a table loaded with food
appeared in the cottage. It was a longer table, this time, and places
were set for the three Adepts as well as for Reera and Ervic.

"Sit down, friends, and eat your fill," said the Yookoohoo, but instead
of seating herself at the head of the table she went to the cupboard,
saying to the Adepts: "Your beauty and grace, my fair friends, quite
outshine my own. So that I may appear properly at the banquet table I
intend, in honor of this occasion, to take upon myself my natural
shape."

Scarcely had she finished this speech when Reera transformed herself
into a young woman fully as lovely as the three Adepts. She was not
quite so tall as they, but her form was more rounded and more
handsomely clothed, with a wonderful jeweled girdle and a necklace of
shining pearls. Her hair was a bright auburn red, and her eyes large
and dark.

"Do you claim this is your natural form?" asked Ervic of the Yookoohoo.

"Yes," she replied. "This is the only form I am really entitled to
wear. But I seldom assume it because there is no one here to admire or
appreciate it and I get tired admiring it myself."

"I see now why you are named Reera the Red," remarked Ervic.

"It is on account of my red hair," she explained smiling. "I do not
care for red hair myself, which is one reason I usually wear other
forms."

"It is beautiful," asserted the young man; and then remembering the
other women present he added: "But, of course, all women should not
have red hair, because that would make it too common. Gold and silver
and brown hair are equally handsome."

The smiles that he saw interchanged between the four filled the poor
Skeezer with embarrassment, so he fell silent and attended to eating
his supper, leaving the others to do the talking. The three Adepts
frankly told Reera who they were, how they became fishes and how they
had planned secretly to induce the Yookoohoo to transform them. They
admitted that they had feared, had they asked her to help, that she
would have refused them.

"You were quite right," returned the Yookoohoo. "I make it my rule
never to perform magic to assist others, for if I did there would
always be crowd at my cottage demanding help and I hate crowds and want
to be left alone."

"However, now that you are restored to your proper shapes, I do not
regret my action and I hope you will be of use in saving the Skeezer
people by raising their island to the surface of the lake, where it
really belongs. But you must promise me that after you go away you will
never come here again, nor tell anyone what I have done for you."

The three Adepts and Ervic thanked the Yookoohoo warmly. They promised
to remember her wish that they should not come to her cottage again and
so, with a good-bye, took their departure.




Chapter Twenty

A Puzzling Problem


Glinda the Good, having decided to try her sorcery upon the abandoned
submarine, so that it would obey her commands, asked all of her party,
including the Skeezers, to withdraw from the shore of the take to the
line of palm trees. She kept with her only the little Wizard of Oz, who
was her pupil and knew how to assist her in her magic rites. When they
two were alone beside the stranded boat, Glinda said to the Wizard:

"I shall first try my magic recipe No. 1163, which is intended to make
inanimate objects move at my command. Have you a skeropythrope with
you?"

"Yes, I always carry one in my bag," replied the Wizard. He opened his
black bag of magic tools and took out a brightly polished
skeropythrope, which he handed to the Sorceress. Glinda had also
brought a small wicker bag, containing various requirements of sorcery,
and from this she took a parcel of powder and a vial of liquid. She
poured the liquid into the skeropythrope and added the powder. At once
the skeropythrope began to sputter and emit sparks of a violet color,
which spread in all directions. The Sorceress instantly stepped into
the middle of the boat and held the instrument so that the sparks fell
all around her and covered every bit of the blackened steel boat. At
the same time Glinda crooned a weird incantation in the language of
sorcery, her voice sounding low and musical.

After a little the violet sparks ceased, and those that had fallen upon
the boat had disappeared and left no mark upon its surface. The
ceremony was ended and Glinda returned the skeropythrope to the Wizard,
who put it away in his black bag.

"That ought to do the business all right," he said confidently.

"Let us make a trial and see," she replied.

So they both entered the boat and seated themselves.

Speaking in a tone of command the Sorceress said to the boat: "Carry us
across the lake, to the farther shore."

At once the boat backed off the sandy beach, turned its prow and moved
swiftly over the water.

"Very good--very good indeed!" cried the Wizard, when the boat slowed
up at the shore opposite from that whence they had departed. "Even
Coo-ee-oh, with all her witchcraft, could do no better."

The Sorceress now said to the boat:

"Close up, submerge and carry us to the basement door of the sunken
island--the door from which you emerged at the command of Queen
Coo-ee-oh."

The boat obeyed. As it sank into the water the top sections rose from
the sides and joined together over the heads of Glinda and the Wizard,
who were thus enclosed in a water-proof chamber. There were four glass
windows in this covering, one on each side and one on either end, so
that the passengers could see exactly where they were going. Moving
under water more slowly than on the surface, the submarine gradually
approached the island and halted with its bow pressed against the huge
marble door in the basement under the Dome. This door was tightly
closed and it was evident to both Glinda and the Wizard that it would
not open to admit the underwater boat unless a magic word was spoken by
them or someone from within the basement of the island. But what was
this magic word?  Neither of them knew.

"I'm afraid," said the Wizard regretfully, "that we can't get in, after
all. Unless your sorcery can discover the word to open the marble door."

"That is probably some word only known to Coo-ce-oh," replied the
Sorceress. "I may be able to discover what it is, but that will require
time. Let us go back again to our companions."

"It seems a shame, after we have made the boat obey us, to be balked by
just a marble door," grumbled the Wizard.

At Glinda's command the boat rose until it was on a level with the
glass dome that covered the Skeezer village, when the Sorceress made it
slowly circle all around the Great Dome.

Many faces were pressed against the glass from the inside, eagerly
watching the submarine, and in one place were Dorothy and Ozma, who
quickly recognized Glinda and the Wizard through the glass windows of
the boat. Glinda saw them, too, and held the boat close to the Dome
while the friends exchanged greetings in pantomime. Their voices,
unfortunately, could not be heard through the Dome and the water and
the side of the boat. The Wizard tried to make the girls understand,
through signs, that he and Glinda had come to their rescue, and Ozma
and Dorothy understood this from the very fact that the Sorceress and
the Wizard had appeared. The two girl prisoners were smiling and in
safety, and knowing this Glinda felt she could take all the time
necessary in order to effect their final rescue.

As nothing more could be done just then, Glinda ordered the boat to
return to shore and it obeyed readily. First it ascended to the surface
of the water, then the roof parted and fell into the slots at the side
of the boat, and then the magic craft quickly made the shore and
beached itself on the sands at the very spot from which it had departed
at Glinda's command. All the Oz people and the Skeezers at once ran to
the boat to ask if they had reached the island, and whether they had
seen Ozma and Dorothy. The Wizard told them of the obstacle they had
met in the way of a marble door, and how Glinda would now undertake to
find a magic way to conquer the door.

Realizing that it would require several days to succeed in reaching the
island raising it and liberating their friends and the Skeezer people,
Glinda now prepared a camp half way between the lake shore and the palm
trees.

The Wizard's wizardry made a number of tents appear and the sorcery of
the Sorceress furnished these tents all complete, with beds, chairs,
tables, flags, lamps and even books with which to pass idle hours. All
the tents had the Royal Banner of Oz flying from the centerpoles and
one big tent, not now occupied, had Ozma's own banner moving in the
breeze.

Betsy and Trot had a tent to themselves, and Button Bright and Ojo had
another. The Scarecrow and the Tin Woodman paired together in one tent
and so did Jack Pumpkinhead and the Shaggy Man, Cap'n Bill and Uncle
Henry, Tik-Tok and Professor Wogglebug. Glinda had the most splendid
tent of all, except that reserved for Ozma, while the Wizard had a
little one of his own. Whenever it was meal time, tables loaded with
food magically appeared in the tents of those who were in the habit of
eating, and these complete arrangements made the rescue party just
comfortable as they would have been in their own homes.

Far into the night Glinda sat in her tent studying a roll of mystic
scrolls in search of a word that would open the basement door of the
island and admit her to the Great Dome. She also made many magical
experiments, hoping to discover something that would aid her. Yet the
morning found the powerful Sorceress still unsuccessful.

Glinda's art could have opened any ordinary door, you may be sure, but
you must realize that this marble door of the island had been commanded
not to open save in obedience to one magic word, and therefore all
other magic words could have no effect upon it. The magic word that
guarded the door had probably been invented by Coo-ee-oh, who had now
forgotten it. The only way, then, to gain entrance to the sunken island
was to break the charm that held the door fast shut. If this could be
done no magic would be required to open it.

The next day the Sorceress and the Wizard again entered the boat and
made it submerge and go to the marble door, which they tried in various
ways to open, but without success.

"We shall have to abandon this attempt, I think," said Glinda. "The
easiest way to raise the island would be for us to gain admittance to
the Dome and then descend to the basement and see in what manner
Coo-ee-oh made the entire island sink or rise at her command. It
naturally occurred to me that the easiest way to gain admittance would
be by having the boat take us into the basement through the marble door
from which Coo-ee-oh launched it. But there must be other ways to get
inside the Dome and join Ozma and Dorothy, and such ways we must find
by study and the proper use of our powers of magic."

"It won't be easy," declared the Wizard, "for we must not forget that
Ozma herself understands considerable magic, and has doubtless tried to
raise the island or find other means of escape from it and failed."

"That is true," returned Glinda, "but Ozma's magic is fairy magic,
while you are a Wizard and I am a Sorceress. In this way the three of
us have a great variety of magic to work with, and if we should all
fail it will be because the island is raised and lowered by a magic
power none of us is acquainted with. My idea therefore is to seek--by
such magic as we possess--to accomplish our object in another way."

They made the circle of the Dome again in their boat, and once more saw
Ozma and Dorothy through their windows and exchanged signals with the
two imprisoned girls.

Ozma realized that her friends were doing all in their power to rescue
her and smiled an encouragement to their efforts. Dorothy seemed a
little anxious but was trying to be as brave as her companion.

After the boat had returned to the camp and Glinda was seated in her
tent, working out various ways by which Ozma and Dorothy could be
rescued, the Wizard stood on the shore dreamily eying the outlines of
the Great Dome which showed beneath the clear water, when he raised his
eyes and saw a group of strange people approaching from around the
lake. Three were young women of stately presence, very beautifully
dressed, who moved with remarkable grace. They were followed at a
little distance by a good-looking young Skeezer.

The Wizard saw at a glance that these people might be very important,
so he advanced to meet them. The three maidens received him graciously
and the one with the golden hair said:

"I believe you are the famous Wizard of Oz, of whom I have often heard.
We are seeking Glinda, the Sorceress, and perhaps you can lead us to
her."

"I can, and will, right gladly," answered the Wizard. "Follow me,
please."

The little Wizard was puzzled as to the identity of the three lovely
visitors but he gave no sign that might embarrass them.

He understood they did not wish to be questioned, and so he made no
remarks as he led the way to Glinda's tent.

With a courtly bow the Wizard ushered the three visitors into the
gracious presence of Glinda, the Good.




Chapter Twenty-One

The Three Adepts


The Sorceress looked up from her work as the three maidens entered, and
something in their appearance and manner led her to rise and bow to
them in her most dignified manner. The three knelt an instant before
the great Sorceress and then stood upright and waited for her to speak.

"Whoever you may be," said Glinda, "I bid you welcome."

"My name is Audah," said one.

"My name is Aurah," said another.

"My name is Aujah," said the third.

Glinda had never heard these names before, but looking closely at the
three she asked:

"Are you witches or workers in magic?"

"Some of the secret arts we have gleaned from Nature," replied the
brownhaired maiden modestly, "but we do not place our skill beside that
of the Great Sorceress, Glinda the Good."

"I suppose you are aware it is unlawful to practice magic in the Land
of Oz, without the permission of our Ruler, Princess Ozma?"

"No, we were not aware of that," was the reply.  "We have heard of
Ozma, who is the appointed Ruler of all this great fairyland, but her
laws have not reached us, as yet."

Glinda studied the strange maidens thoughtfully; then she said to them:

"Princess Ozma is even now imprisoned in the Skeezer village, for the
whole island with its Great Dome, was sunk to the bottom of the lake by
the witchcraft of Coo-ee-oh, whom the Flathead Su-dic transformed into
a silly swan. I am seeking some way to overcome Coo-ee-oh's magic and
raise the isle to the surface again. Can you help me do this?"

The maidens exchanged glances, and the white-haired one replied:

"We do not know; but we will try to assist you."

"It seems," continued Glinda musingly, "that Coo-ee-oh derived most of
her witchcraft from three Adepts at Magic, who at one time ruled the
Flatheads. While the Adepts were being entertained by Coo-ee-oh at a
banquet in her palace, she cruelly betrayed them and after transforming
them into fishes cast them into the lake.

"If I could find these three fishes and return them to their natural
shapes--they might know what magic Coo-ee-oh used to sink the island. I
was about to go to the shore and call these fishes to me when you
arrived. So, if you will join me, we will try to find them."

The maidens exchanged smiles now, and the golden-haired one, Audah,
said to Glinda:

"It will not be necessary to go to the lake. We are the three fishes."

"Indeed!" cried Glinda. "Then you are the three Adepts at Magic,
restored to your proper forms?"

"We are the three Adepts," admitted Aujah.

"Then," said Glinda, "my task is half accomplished. But who destroyed
the transformation that made you fishes?"

"We have promised not to tell," answered Aurah; "but this young Skeezer
was largely responsible for our release; he is brave and clever, and we
owe him our gratitude."

Glinda looked at Ervic, who stood modestly behind the Adepts, hat in
hand. "He shall be properly rewarded," she declared, "for in helping
you he has helped us all, and perhaps saved his people from being
imprisoned forever in the sunken isle."

The Sorceress now asked her guests to seat themselves and a long talk
followed, in which the Wizard of Oz shared.

"We are quite certain," said Aurah, "that if we could get inside the
Dome we could discover Coo-ee-oh's secrets, for in all her work, after
we became fishes, she used the formulas and incantations and arts that
she stole from us. She may have added to these things, but they were
the foundation of all her work."

"What means do you suggest for our getting into the Dome?" inquired
Glinda.

The three Adepts hesitated to reply, for they had not yet considered
what could be done to reach the inside of the Great Dome. While they
were in deep thought, and Glinda and the Wizard were quietly awaiting
their suggestions, into the tent rushed Trot and Betsy, dragging
between them the Patchwork Girl.

"Oh, Glinda," cried Trot, "Scraps has thought of a way to rescue Ozma
and Dorothy and all of the Skeezers."

The three Adepts could not avoid laughing merrily, for not only were
they amused by the queer form of the Patchwork Girl, but Trot's
enthusiastic speech struck them as really funny. If the Great Sorceress
and the famous Wizard and the three talented Adepts at Magic were
unable as yet to solve the important problem of the sunken isle, there
was little chance for a patched girl stuffed with cotton to succeed.

But Glinda, smiling indulgently at the earnest faces turned toward her,
patted the children's heads and said:

"Scraps is very clever. Tell us what she has thought of, my dear."

"Well," said Trot, "Scraps says that if you could dry up all the water
in the lake the island would be on dry land, an' everyone could come
and go whenever they liked."

Glinda smiled again, but the Wizard said to the girls:

"If we should dry up the lake, what would become of all the beautiful
fishes that now live in the water?"

"Dear me! That's so," admitted Betsy, crestfallen; "we never thought of
that, did we Trot?"

"Couldn't you transform 'em into polliwogs?" asked Scraps, turning a
somersault and then standing on one leg. "You could give them a little,
teeny pond to swim in, and they'd be just as happy as they are as
fishes."

"No indeed!" replied the Wizard, severely. "It is wicked to transform
any living creatures without their consent, and the lake is the home of
the fishes and belongs to them."

"All right," said Scraps, making a face at him; "I don't care."

"It's too bad," sighed Trot, "for I thought we'd struck a splendid
idea."

"So you did," declared Glinda, her face now grave and thoughtful.
"There is something in the Patchwork Girl's idea that may be of real
value to us."

"I think so, too," agreed the golden-haired Adept. "The top of the
Great Dome is only a few feet below the surface of the water. If we
could reduce the level of the lake until the Dome sticks a little above
the water, we could remove some of the glass and let ourselves down
into the village by means of ropes."

"And there would be plenty of water left for the fishes to swim in,"
added the white-haired maiden.

"If we succeed in raising the island we could fill up the lake again,"
suggested the brown-haired Adept.

"I believe," said the Wizard, rubbing his hands together in delight,
"that the Patchwork Girl has shown us the way to success."

The girls were looking curiously at the three beautiful Adepts,
wondering who they were, so Glinda introduced them to Trot and Betsy
and Scraps, and then sent the children away while she considered how to
carry the new idea into effect.

Not much could be done that night, so the Wizard prepared another tent
for the Adepts, and in the evening Glinda held a reception and invited
all her followers to meet the new arrivals. The Adepts were greatly
astonished at the extraordinary personages presented to them, and
marveled that Jack Pumpkinhead and the Scarecrow and the Tin Woodman
and Tik-Tok could really live and think and talk just like other
people. They were especially pleased with the lively Patchwork Girl and
loved to watch her antics.

It was quite a pleasant party, for Glinda served some dainty
refreshments to those who could eat, and the Scarecrow recited some
poems, and the Cowardly Lion sang a song in his deep bass voice. The
only thing that marred their joy was the thought that their beloved
Ozma and dear little Dorothy were yet confined in the Great Dome of the
Sunken island.




Chapter Twenty-Two

The Sunken Island


As soon as they had breakfasted the next morning, Glinda and the Wizard
and the three Adepts went down to the shore of the lake and formed a
line with their faces toward the submerged island. All the others came
to watch them, but stood at a respectful distance in the background.

At the right of the Sorceress stood Audah and Aurah, while at the left
stood the Wizard and Aujah. Together they stretched their arms over the
water's edge and in unison the five chanted a rhythmic incantation.

This chant they repeated again and again, swaying their arms gently
from side to side, and in a few minutes the watchers behind them
noticed that the lake had begun to recede from the shore. Before long
the highest point of the dome appeared above the water. Gradually the
water fell, making the dome appear to rise. When it was three or four
feet above the surface Glinda gave the signal to stop, for their work
had been accomplished.

The blackened submarine was now entirely out of water, but Uncle Henry
and Cap'n Bill managed to push it into the lake. Glinda, the Wizard,
Ervic and the Adepts got into the boat, taking with them a coil of
strong rope, and at the command of the Sorceress the craft cleaved its
way through the water toward the part of the Dome which was now visible.

"There's still plenty of water for the fish to swim in," observed the
Wizard as they rode along. "They might like more but I'm sure they can
get along until we have raised the island and can fill up the lake
again."

The boat touched gently on the sloping glass of the Dome, and the
Wizard took some tools from his black bag and quickly removed one large
pane of glass, thus making a hole large enough for their bodies to pass
through. Stout frames of steel supported the glass of the Dome, and
around one of these frames the Wizard tied the end of a rope.

"I'll go down first," said he, "for while I'm not as spry as Cap'n Bill
I'm sure I can manage it easily.  Are you sure the rope is long enough
to reach the bottom?"

"Quite sure," replied the Sorceress.

So the Wizard let down the rope and climbing through the opening
lowered himself down, hand over hand, clinging to the rope with his
legs and feet. Below in the streets of the village were gathered all
the Skeezers, men, women and children, and you may be sure that Ozma
and Dorothy, with Lady Aurex, were filled with joy that their friends
were at last coming to their rescue.

The Queen's palace, now occupied by Ozma, was directly in the center of
the Dome, so that when the rope was let down the end of it came just in
front of the palace entrance. Several Skeezers held fast to the rope's
end to steady it and the Wizard reached the ground in safety. He hugged
first Ozma and then Dorothy, while all the Skeezers cheered as loud as
they could.

The Wizard now discovered that the rope was long enough to reach from
the top of the Dome to the ground when doubled, so he tied a chair to
one end of the rope and called to Glinda to sit in the chair while he
and some of the Skeezers lowered her to the pavement. In this way the
Sorceress reached the ground quite comfortably and the three Adepts and
Ervic soon followed her.

The Skeezers quickly recognized the three Adepts at Magic, whom they
had learned to respect before their wicked Queen betrayed them, and
welcomed them as friends. All the inhabitants of the village had been
greatly frightened by their imprisonment under water, but now realized
that an attempt was to be made to rescue them.

Glinda, the Wizard and the Adepts followed Ozma and Dorothy into the
palace, and they asked Lady Aurex and Ervic to join them. After Ozma
had told of her adventures in trying to prevent war between the
Flatheads and the Skeezers, and Glinda had told all about the Rescue
Expedition and the restoration of the three Adepts by the help of
Ervic, a serious consultation was held as to how the island could be
made to rise.

"I've tried every way in my power," said Ozma, "but Coo-ee-oh used a
very unusual sort of magic which I do not understand. She seems to have
prepared her witchcraft in such a way that a spoken word is necessary
to accomplish her designs, and these spoken words are known only to
herself."

"That is a method we taught her," declared Aurah the Adept.

"I can do no more, Glinda," continued Ozma, "so I wish you would try
what your sorcery can accomplish."

"First, then," said Glinda, "let us visit the basement of the island,
which I am told is underneath the village."

A flight of marble stairs led from one of Coo-ee-oh's private rooms
down to the basement, but when the party arrived all were puzzled by
what they saw. In the center of a broad, low room, stood a mass of
great cog-wheels, chains and pulleys, all interlocked and seeming to
form a huge machine; but there was no engine or other motive power to
make the wheels turn.

"This, I suppose, is the means by which the island is lowered or
raised," said Ozma, "but the magic word which is needed to move the
machinery is unknown to us."

The three Adepts were carefully examining the mass of wheels, and soon
the golden-haired one said:

"These wheels do not control the island at all. On the contrary, one
set of them is used to open the doors of the little rooms where the
submarines are kept, as may be seen from the chains and pulleys used.
Each boat is kept in a little room with two doors, one to the basement
room where we are now and the other letting into the lake.

"When Coo-ee-oh used the boat in which she attacked the Flatheads, she
first commanded the basement door to open and with her followers she
got into the boat and made the top close over them. Then the basement
door being closed, the outer door was slowly opened, letting the water
fill the room to float the boat, which then left the island, keeping
under water."

"But how could she expect to get back again?" asked the Wizard.

"Why the boat would enter the room filled with water and after the
outer door was closed a word of command started a pump which pumped all
the water from the room. Then the boat would open and Coo-ee-oh could
enter the basement."

"I see," said the Wizard. "It is a clever contrivance, but won't work
unless one knows the magic words."

"Another part of this machinery," explained the white-haired Adept, "is
used to extend the bridge from the island to the mainland. The steel
bridge is in a room much like that in which the boats are kept, and at
Coo-ce-oh's command it would reach out, joint by joint, until its far
end touched the shore of the lake. The same magic command would make
the bridge return to its former position. Of course the bridge could
not be used unless the island was on the surface of the water."

"But how do you suppose Coo-ee-oh managed to sink the island, and make
it rise again?" inquired Glinda.

This the Adepts could not yet explain. As nothing more could be learned
from the basement they mounted the steps to the Queen's private suite
again, and Ozma showed them to a special room where Coo-ee-oh kept her
magical instruments and performed all her arts of witchcraft.




Chapter Twenty-Three

The Magic Words


Many interesting things were to be seen in the Room of Magic, including
much that had been stolen from the Adepts when they were transformed to
fishes, but they had to admit that Coo-ee-oh had a rare genius for
mechanics, and had used her knowledge in inventing a lot of mechanical
apparatus that ordinary witches, wizards and sorcerers could not
understand.

They all carefully inspected this room, taking care to examine every
article they came across.

"The island," said Glinda thoughtfully, "rests on a base of solid
marble. When it is submerged, as it is now, the base of the island is
upon the bottom of the lake. What puzzles me is how such a great weight
can be lifted and suspended in the water, even by magic."

"I now remember," returned Aujah, "that one of the arts we taught
Coo-ee-oh was the way to expand steel, and I think that explains how
the island is raised and lowered. I noticed in the basement a big steel
pillar that passed through the floor and extended upward to this
palace. Perhaps the end of it is concealed in this very room. If the
lower end of the steel pillar is firmly embedded in the bottom of the
lake, Coo-ee-oh could utter a magic word that would make the pillar
expand, and so lift the entire island to the level of the water."

"I've found the end of the steel pillar. It's just here," announced the
Wizard, pointing to one side of the room where a great basin of
polished steel seemed to have been set upon the floor.

They all gathered around, and Ozma said:

"Yes, I am quite sure that is the upper end of the pillar that supports
the island. I noticed it when I first came here. It has been hollowed
out, you see, and something has been burned in the basin, for the fire
has left its marks. I wondered what was under the great basin and got
several of the Skeezers to come up here and try to lift it for me. They
were strong men, but could not move it at all."

"It seems to me," said Audah the Adept, "that we have discovered the
manner in which Coo-ee-oh raised the island. She would burn some sort
of magic powder in the basin, utter the magic word, and the pillar
would lengthen out and lift the island with it."

"What's this?" asked Dorothy, who had been searching around with the
others, and now noticed a slight hollow in the wall, near to where the
steel basin stood. As she spoke Dorothy pushed her thumb into the
hollow and instantly a small drawer popped out from the wall.

The three Adepts, Glinda and the Wizard sprang forward and peered into
the drawer. It was half filled with a grayish powder, the tiny grains
of which constantly moved as if impelled by some living force.

"It may be some kind of radium," said the Wizard.

"No," replied Glinda, "it is more wonderful than even radium, for I
recognize it as a rare mineral powder called Gaulau by the sorcerers. I
wonder how Coo-ee-oh discovered it and where she obtained it."

"There is no doubt," said Aujah the Adept, "that this is the magic
powder Coo-ee-oh burned in the basin. If only we knew the magic word, I
am quite sure we could raise the island."

"How can we discover the magic word?" asked Ozma, turning to Glinda as
she spoke.

"That we must now seriously consider," answered the Sorceress.

So all of them sat down in the Room of Magic and began to think. It was
so still that after a while Dorothy grew nervous. The little girl never
could keep silent for long, and at the risk of displeasing her
magic-working friends she suddenly said:

"Well, Coo-ee-oh used just three magic words, one to make the bridge
work, and one to make the submarines go out of their holes, and one to
raise and lower the island. Three words. And Coo-ee-oh's name is made
up of just three words. One is 'Coo,' and one is 'ee,' and one is 'oh.'"

The Wizard frowned but Glinda looked wonderingly at the young girl and
Ozma cried out:

"A good thought, Dorothy dear! You may have solved our problem."

"I believe it is worth a trial," agreed Glinda. "It would be quite
natural for Coo-ee-oh to divide her name into three magic syllables,
and Dorothy's suggestion seems like an inspiration."

The three Adepts also approved the trial but the brown-haired one said:

"We must be careful not to use the wrong word, and send the bridge out
under water. The main thing, if Dorothy's idea is correct, is to hit
upon the one word that moves the island."

"Let us experiment," suggested the Wizard.

In the drawer with the moving gray powder was a tiny golden cup, which
they thought was used for measuring. Glinda filled this cup with the
powder and carefully poured it into the shallow basin, which was the
top of the great steel pillar supporting the island. Then Aurah the
Adept lighted a taper and touched it to the powder, which instantly
glowed fiery red and tumbled about the basin with astonishing energy.
While the grains of powder still glowed red the Sorceress bent over it
and said in a voice of command: "Coo!"

They waited motionless to see what would happen. There was a grating
noise and a whirl of machinery, but the island did not move a particle.

Dorothy rushed to the window, which overlooked the glass side of the
dome.

"The boats!" she exclaimed. "The boats are all loose an' sailing under
water."

"We've made a mistake," said the Wizard gloomily.

"But it's one which shows we are on the right track," declared Aujah
the Adept. "We know now that Coo-ee-oh used the syllables of her name
for the magic words."

"If 'Coo' sends out the boats, it is probable that ee' works the
bridge," suggested Ozma. "So the last part of the name may raise the
island."

"Let us try that next then," proposed the Wizard.

He scraped the embers of the burned powder out of the basin and Glinda
again filled the golden cup from the drawer and placed it on top the
steel pillar. Aurah lighted it with her taper and Ozma bent over the
basin and murmured the long drawn syllable: "Oh-h-h!"

Instantly the island trembled and with a weird groaning noise it moved
upward--slowly, very slowly, but with a steady motion, while all the
company stood by in awed silence. It was a wonderful thing, even to
those skilled in the arts of magic, wizardry and sorcery, to realize
that a single word could raise that great, heavy island, with its
immense glass Dome.

"Why, we're way above the lake now!" exclaimed Dorothy from the window,
when at last the island ceased to move.

"That is because we lowered the level of the water," explained Glinda.

They could hear the Skeezers cheering lustily in the streets of the
village as they realized that they were saved.

"Come," said Ozma eagerly, "let us go down and join the people."

"Not just yet," returned Glinda, a happy smile upon her lovely face,
for she was overjoyed at their success. "First let us extend the bridge
to the mainland, where our friends from the Emerald City are waiting."

It didn't take long to put more powder in the basin, light it and utter
the syllable "EE!" The result was that a door in the basement opened
and the steel bridge moved out, extended itself joint by joint, and
finally rested its far end on the shore of the lake just in front of
the encampment.

"Now," said Glinda, "we can go up and receive the congratulations of
the Skeezers and of our friends of the Rescue Expedition."

Across the water, on the shore of the lake, the Patchwork Girl was
waving them a welcome.




Chapter Twenty-Four

Glinda's Triumph


Of course all those who had joined Glinda's expedition at once crossed
the bridge to the island, where they were warmly welcomed by the
Skeezers. Before all the concourse of people Princess Ozma made a
speech from a porch of the palace and demanded that they recognize her
as their lawful Ruler and promise to obey the laws of the Land of Oz.
In return she agreed to protect them from all future harm and declared
they would no longer be subjected to cruelty and abuse.

This pleased the Skeezers greatly, and when Ozma told them they might
elect a Queen to rule over them, who in turn would be subject to Ozma
of Oz, they voted for Lady Aurex, and that same day the ceremony of
crowning the new Queen was held and Aurex was installed as mistress of
the palace.

For her Prime Minister the Queen selected Ervic, for the three Adepts
had told of his good judgment, faithfulness and cleverness, and all the
Skeezers approved the appointment.

Glinda, the Wizard and the Adepts stood on the bridge and recited an
incantation that quite filled the lake with water again, and the
Scarecrow and the Patchwork Girl climbed to the top of the Great Dome
and replaced the pane of glass that had been removed to allow Glinda
and her followers to enter.

When evening came Ozma ordered a great feast prepared, to which every
Skeezer was invited. The village was beautifully decorated and
brilliantly lighted and there was music and dancing until a late hour
to celebrate the liberation of the people. For the Skeezers had been
freed, not only from the water of the lake but from the cruelty of
their former Queen.

As the people from the Emerald City prepared the next morning to depart
Queen Aurex said to Ozma:

"There is only one thing I now fear for my people, and that is the
enmity of the terrible Su-dic of the Flatheads. He is liable to come
here at any time and try to annoy us, and my Skeezers are peaceful
folks and unable to fight the wild and wilful Flatheads."

"Do not worry," returned Ozma, reassuringly. "We intend to stop on our
way at the Flatheads' Enchanted Mountain and punish the Su-dic for his
misdeeds."

That satisfied Aurex and when Ozma and her followers trooped over the
bridge to the shore, having taken leave of their friends, all the
Skeezers cheered them and waved their hats and handkerchiefs, and the
band played and the departure was indeed a ceremony long to be
remembered.

The three Adepts at Magic, who had formerly ruled the Flatheads wisely
and considerately, went with Princess Ozma and her people, for they had
promised Ozma to stay on the mountain and again see that the laws were
enforced.

Glinda had been told all about the curious Flatheads and she had
consulted with the Wizard and formed a plan to render them more
intelligent and agreeable.

When the party reached the mountain Ozma and Dorothy showed them how to
pass around the invisible wall--which had been built by the Flatheads
after the Adepts were transformed--and how to gain the up-and-down
stairway that led to the mountain top.

The Su-dic had watched the approach of the party from the edge of the
mountain and was frightened when he saw that the three Adepts had
recovered their natural forms and were coming back to their former
home. He realized that his power would soon be gone and yet he
determined to fight to the last. He called all the Flatheads together
and armed them, and told them to arrest all who came up the stairway
and hurl them over the edge of the mountain to the plain below. But
although they feared the Supreme Dictator, who had threatened to punish
them if they did not obey his commands, as soon as they saw the three
Adepts they threw down their arms and begged their former rulers to
protect them.

The three Adepts assured the excited Flatheads that they had nothing to
fear.

Seeing that his people had rebelled the Su-dic ran away and tried to
hide, but the Adepts found him and had him cast into a prison, all his
cans of brains being taken away from him.

After this easy conquest of the Su-dic, Glinda told the Adepts of her
plan, which had already been approved by Ozma of Oz, and they joyfully
agreed to it. So, during the next few days, the great Sorceress
transformed, in a way, every Flathead on the mountain.

Taking them one at a time, she had the can of brains that belonged to
each one opened and the contents spread on the flat head, after which,
by means of her arts of sorcery, she caused the head to grow over the
brains--in the manner most people wear them--and they were thus
rendered as intelligent and good looking as any of the other
inhabitants of the Land of Oz.

When all had been treated in this manner there were no more Flatheads
at all, and the Adepts decided to name their people Mountaineers. One
good result of Glinda's sorcery was that no one could now be deprived
of the brains that belonged to him and each person had exactly the
share he was entitled to.

Even the Su-dic was given his portion of brains and his flat head made
round, like the others, but he was deprived of all power to work
further mischief, and with the Adepts constantly watching him he would
be forced to become obedient and humble.

The Golden Pig, which ran grunting about the streets, with no brains at
all, was disenchanted by Glinda, and in her woman's form was given
brains and a round head. This wife of the Su-dic had once been even
more wicked than her evil husband, but she had now forgotten all her
wickedness and was likely to be a good woman thereafter.

These things being accomplished in a satisfactory manner, Princess Ozma
and her people bade farewell to the three Adepts and departed for the
Emerald City, well pleased with their interesting adventures.

They returned by the road over which Ozma and Dorothy had come,
stopping to get the Sawhorse and the Red Wagon where they had left them.

"I'm very glad I went to see these peoples," said Princess Ozma, "for I
not only prevented any further warfare between them, but they have been
freed from the rule of the Su-dic and Coo-ee-oh and are now happy and
loyal subjects of the Land of Oz. Which proves that it is always wise
to do one's duty, however unpleasant that duty may seem to be."




﻿




THE LOST PRINCESS OF OZ


  This Book is Dedicated
  To My Granddaughter
  OZMA BAUM




To My Readers

Some of my youthful readers are developing wonderful imaginations. This
pleases me. Imagination has brought mankind through the Dark Ages to
its present state of civilization. Imagination led Columbus to discover
America. Imagination led Franklin to discover electricity. Imagination
has given us the steam engine, the telephone, the talking-machine and
the automobile, for these things had to be dreamed of before they
became realities. So I believe that dreams--day dreams, you know, with
your eyes wide open and your brain-machinery whizzing--are likely to
lead to the betterment of the world. The imaginative child will become
the imaginative man or woman most apt to create, to invent, and
therefore to foster civilization. A prominent educator tells me that
fairy tales are of untold value in developing imagination in the young.
I believe it.

Among the letters I receive from children are many containing
suggestions of "what to write about in the next Oz Book." Some of the
ideas advanced are mighty interesting, while others are too extravagant
to be seriously considered--even in a fairy tale. Yet I like them all,
and I must admit that the main idea in "The Lost Princess of Oz" was
suggested to me by a sweet little girl of eleven who called to see me
and to talk about the Land of Oz. Said she: "I s'pose if Ozma ever got
lost, or stolen, ev'rybody in Oz would be dreadful sorry."

That was all, but quite enough foundation to build this present story
on. If you happen to like the story, give credit to my little friend's
clever hint.

L. Frank Baum
  Royal Historian of Oz




LIST OF CHAPTERS

   1  A Terrible Loss
   2  The Troubles of Glinda the Good
   3  The Robbery of Cayke the Cookie Cook
   4  Among the Winkies
   5  Ozma's Friends Are Perplexed
   6  The Search Party
   7  The Merry-Go-Round Mountains
   8  The Mysterious City
   9  The High Coco-Lorum of Thi
  10  Toto Loses Something
  11  Button-Bright Loses Himself
  12  The Czarover of Herku
  13  The Truth Pond
  14  The Unhappy Ferryman
  15  The Big Lavender Bear
  16  The Little Pink Bear
  17  The Meeting
  18  The Conference
  19  Ugu the Shoemaker
  20  More Surprises
  21  Magic Against Magic
  22  In the Wicker Castle
  23  The Defiance of Ugu the Shoemaker
  24  The Little Pink Bear Speaks Truly
  25  Ozma of Oz
  26  Dorothy Forgives




THE LOST PRINCESS

BY L. FRANK BAUM



CHAPTER 1

A TERRIBLE LOSS


There could be no doubt of the fact: Princess Ozma, the lovely girl
ruler of the Fairyland of Oz, was lost.  She had completely
disappeared.  Not one of her subjects--not even her closest
friends--knew what had become of her.  It was Dorothy who first
discovered it.  Dorothy was a little Kansas girl who had come to the
Land of Oz to live and had been given a delightful suite of rooms in
Ozma's royal palace just because Ozma loved Dorothy and wanted her to
live as near her as possible so the two girls might be much together.

Dorothy was not the only girl from the outside world who had been
welcomed to Oz and lived in the royal palace.  There was another named
Betsy Bobbin, whose adventures had led her to seek refuge with Ozma,
and still another named Trot, who had been invited, together with her
faithful companion Cap'n Bill, to make her home in this wonderful
fairyland.  The three girls all had rooms in the palace and were great
chums; but Dorothy was the dearest friend of their gracious Ruler and
only she at any hour dared to seek Ozma in her royal apartments.  For
Dorothy had lived in Oz much longer than the other girls and had been
made a Princess of the realm.

Betsy was a year older than Dorothy and Trot was a year younger, yet
the three were near enough of an age to become great playmates and to
have nice times together.  It was while the three were talking together
one morning in Dorothy's room that Betsy proposed they make a journey
into the Munchkin Country, which was one of the four great countries of
the Land of Oz ruled by Ozma.  "I've never been there yet," said Betsy
Bobbin, "but the Scarecrow once told me it is the prettiest country in
all Oz."

"I'd like to go, too," added Trot.


"All right," said Dorothy.  "I'll go and ask Ozma.  Perhaps she will
let us take the Sawhorse and the Red Wagon, which would be much nicer
for us than having to walk all the way.  This Land of Oz is a pretty
big place when you get to all the edges of it."

So she jumped up and went along the halls of the splendid palace until
she came to the royal suite, which filled all the front of the second
floor.  In a little waiting room sat Ozma's maid, Jellia Jamb, who was
busily sewing.  "Is Ozma up yet?" inquired Dorothy.

"I don't know, my dear," replied Jellia.  "I haven't heard a word from
her this morning.  She hasn't even called for her bath or her
breakfast, and it is far past her usual time for them."

"That's strange!" exclaimed the little girl.

"Yes," agreed the maid, "but of course no harm could have happened to
her.  No one can die or be killed in the Land of Oz, and Ozma is
herself a powerful fairy, and she has no enemies so far as we know.
Therefore I am not at all worried about her, though I must admit her
silence is unusual."

"Perhaps," said Dorothy thoughtfully, "she has overslept.  Or she may
be reading or working out some new sort of magic to do good to her
people."

"Any of these things may be true," replied Jellia Jamb, "so I haven't
dared disturb our royal mistress.  You, however, are a privileged
character, Princess, and I am sure that Ozma wouldn't mind at all if
you went in to see her."

"Of course not," said Dorothy, and opening the door of the outer
chamber, she went in.  All was still here.  She walked into another
room, which was Ozma's boudoir, and then, pushing back a heavy drapery
richly broidered with threads of pure gold, the girl entered the
sleeping-room of the fairy Ruler of Oz.  The bed of ivory and gold was
vacant; the room was vacant; not a trace of Ozma was to be found.

Very much surprised, yet still with no fear that anything had happened
to her friend, Dorothy returned through the boudoir to the other rooms
of the suite.  She went into the music room, the library, the
laboratory, the bath, the wardrobe, and even into the great throne
room, which adjoined the royal suite, but in none of these places could
she find Ozma.

So she returned to the anteroom where she had left the maid, Jellia
Jamb, and said:

"She isn't in her rooms now, so she must have gone out."

"I don't understand how she could do that without my seeing her,"
replied Jellia, "unless she made herself invisible."

"She isn't there, anyhow," declared Dorothy.

"Then let us go find her," suggested the maid, who appeared to be a
little uneasy.  So they went into the corridors, and there Dorothy
almost stumbled over a queer girl who was dancing lightly along the
passage.

"Stop a minute, Scraps!" she called, "Have you seen Ozma this morning?"

"Not I!" replied the queer girl, dancing nearer.  "I lost both my eyes
in a tussle with the Woozy last night, for the creature scraped 'em
both off my face with his square paws.  So I put the eyes in my pocket,
and this morning Button-Bright led me to Aunt Em, who sewed 'em on
again.  So I've seen nothing at all today, except during the last five
minutes.  So of course I haven't seen Ozma."

"Very well, Scraps," said Dorothy, looking curiously at the eyes, which
were merely two round, black buttons sewed upon the girl's face.

There were other things about Scraps that would have seemed curious to
one seeing her for the first time.  She was commonly called "the
Patchwork Girl" because her body and limbs were made from a gay-colored
patchwork quilt which had been cut into shape and stuffed with cotton.
Her head was a round ball stuffed in the same manner and fastened to
her shoulders.  For hair, she had a mass of brown yarn, and to make a
nose for her a part of the cloth had been pulled out into the shape of
a knob and tied with a string to hold it in place. Her mouth had been
carefully made by cutting a slit in the proper place and lining it with
red silk, adding two rows of pearls for teeth and a bit of red flannel
for a tongue.

In spite of this queer make-up, the Patchwork Girl was magically alive
and had proved herself not the least jolly and agreeable of the many
quaint characters who inhabit the astonishing Fairyland of Oz. Indeed,
Scraps was a general favorite, although she was rather flighty and
erratic and did and said many things that surprised her friends. She
was seldom still, but loved to dance, to turn handsprings and
somersaults, to climb trees and to indulge in many other active sports.

"I'm going to search for Ozma," remarked Dorothy, "for she isn't in her
rooms, and I want to ask her a question."

"I'll go with you," said Scraps, "for my eyes are brighter than yours,
and they can see farther."

"I'm not sure of that," returned Dorothy.  "But come along, if you
like."

Together they searched all through the great palace and even to the
farthest limits of the palace grounds, which were quite extensive, but
nowhere could they find a trace of Ozma.  When Dorothy returned to
where Betsy and Trot awaited her, the little girl's face was rather
solemn and troubled, for never before had Ozma gone away without
telling her friends where she was going, or without an escort that
befitted her royal state.  She was gone, however, and none had seen her
go.  Dorothy had met and questioned the Scarecrow, Tik-Tok, the Shaggy
Man, Button-Bright, Cap'n Bill, and even the wise and powerful Wizard
of Oz, but not one of them had seen Ozma since she parted with her
friends the evening before and had gone to her own rooms.

"She didn't say anything las' night about going anywhere," observed
little Trot.

"No, and that's the strange part of it," replied Dorothy.  "Usually
Ozma lets us know of everything she does."

"Why not look in the Magic Picture?" suggested Betsy Bobbin.  "That
will tell us where she is in just one second."

"Of course!" cried Dorothy.  "Why didn't I think of that before?"  And
at once the three girls hurried away to Ozma's boudoir, where the Magic
Picture always hung.  This wonderful Magic Picture was one of the royal
Ozma's greatest treasures.  There was a large gold frame in the center
of which was a bluish-gray canvas on which various scenes constantly
appeared and disappeared.  If one who stood before it wished to see
what any person anywhere in the world was doing, it was only necessary
to make the wish and the scene in the Magic Picture would shift to the
scene where that person was and show exactly what he or she was then
engaged in doing.  So the girls knew it would be easy for them to wish
to see Ozma, and from the picture they could quickly learn where she
was.

Dorothy advanced to the place where the picture was usually protected
by thick satin curtains and pulled the draperies aside.  Then she
stared in amazement, while her two friends uttered exclamations of
disappointment.

The Magic Picture was gone. Only a blank space on the wall behind the
curtains showed where it had formerly hung.




CHAPTER 2

THE TROUBLES OF GLINDA THE GOOD


That same morning there was great excitement in the castle of the
powerful Sorceress of Oz, Glinda the Good.  This castle, situated in
the Quadling Country, far south of the Emerald City where Ozma ruled,
was a splendid structure of exquisite marbles and silver grilles. Here
the Sorceress lived, surrounded by a bevy of the most beautiful maidens
of Oz, gathered from all the four countries of that fairyland as well
as from the magnificent Emerald City itself, which stood in the place
where the four countries cornered.  It was considered a great honor to
be allowed to serve the good Sorceress, whose arts of magic were used
only to benefit the Oz people.  Glinda was Ozma's most valued servant,
for her knowledge of sorcery was wonderful, and she could accomplish
almost anything that her mistress, the lovely girl Ruler of Oz, wished
her to.

Of all the magical things which surrounded Glinda in her castle, there
was none more marvelous than her Great Book of Records.  On the pages
of this Record Book were constantly being inscribed, day by day and
hour by hour, all the important events that happened anywhere in the
known world, and they were inscribed in the book at exactly the moment
the events happened.  Every adventure in the Land of Oz and in the big
outside world, and even in places that you and I have never heard of,
were recorded accurately in the Great Book, which never made a mistake
and stated only the exact truth.  For that reason, nothing could be
concealed from Glinda the Good, who had only to look at the pages of
the Great Book of Records to know everything that had taken place. That
was one reason she was such a great Sorceress, for the records made her
wiser than any other living person.

This wonderful book was placed upon a big gold table that stood in the
middle of Glinda's drawing room.  The legs of the table, which were
incrusted with precious gems, were firmly fastened to the tiled floor,
and the book itself was chained to the table and locked with six stout
golden padlocks, the keys to which Glinda carried on a chain that was
secured around her own neck.  The pages of the Great Book were larger
in size than those of an American newspaper, and although they were
exceedingly thin, there were so many of them that they made an
enormous, bulky volume.  With its gold cover and gold clasps, the book
was so heavy that three men could scarcely have lifted it.  Yet this
morning when Glinda entered her drawing room after breakfast, the good
Sorceress was amazed to discover that her Great Book of Records had
mysteriously disappeared.

Advancing to the table, she found the chains had been cut with some
sharp instrument, and this must have been done while all in the castle
slept. Glinda was shocked and grieved.  Who could have done this
wicked, bold thing?  And who could wish to deprive her of her Great
Book of Records?

The Sorceress was thoughtful for a time, considering the consequences
of her loss.  Then she went to her Room of Magic to prepare a charm
that would tell her who had stolen the Record Book.  But when she
unlocked her cupboard and threw open the doors, all of her magical
instruments and rare chemical compounds had been removed from the
shelves.  The Sorceress has now both angry and alarmed.  She sat down
in a chair and tried to think how this extraordinary robbery could have
taken place.  It was evident that the thief was some person of very
great power, or the theft could not have been accomplished without her
knowledge. But who, in all the Land of Oz, was powerful and skillful
enough to do this awful thing?  And who, having the power, could also
have an object in defying the wisest and most talented Sorceress the
world has ever known?

Glinda thought over the perplexing matter for a full hour, at the end
of which time she was still puzzled how to explain it.  But although
her instruments and chemicals were gone, her KNOWLEDGE of magic had not
been stolen, by any means, since no thief, however skillful, can rob
one of knowledge, and that is why knowledge is the best and safest
treasure to acquire.  Glinda believed that when she had time to gather
more magical herbs and elixirs and to manufacture more magical
instruments, she would be able to discover who the robber was and what
had become of her precious Book of Records.

"Whoever has done this," she said to her maidens, "is a very foolish
person, for in time he is sure to be found out and will then be
severely punished."

She now made a list of the things she needed and dispatched messengers
to every part of Oz with instructions to obtain them and bring them to
her as soon as possible.  And one of her messengers met the little
Wizard of Oz, who was seated on the back of the famous live Sawhorse
and was clinging to its neck with both his arms, for the Sawhorse was
speeding to Glinda's castle with the velocity of the wind, bearing the
news that Royal Ozma, Ruler of all the great Land of Oz, had suddenly
disappeared and no one in the Emerald City knew what had become of her.

"Also," said the Wizard as he stood before the astonished Sorceress,
"Ozma's Magic Picture is gone, so we cannot consult it to discover
where she is.  So I came to you for assistance as soon as we realized
our loss.  Let us look in the Great Book of Records."

"Alas," returned the Sorceress sorrowfully, "we cannot do that, for the
Great Book of Records has also disappeared!"




CHAPTER 3

THE ROBBERY OF CAYKE THE COOKIE COOK


One more important theft was reported in the Land of Oz that eventful
morning, but it took place so far from either the Emerald City or the
castle of Glinda the Good that none of those persons we have mentioned
learned of the robbery until long afterward.

In the far southwestern corner of the Winkie Country is a broad
tableland that can be reached only by climbing a steep hill, whichever
side one approaches it.  On the hillside surrounding this tableland are
no paths at all, but there are quantities of bramble bushes with sharp
prickers on them, which prevent any of the Oz people who live down
below from climbing up to see what is on top.  But on top live the
Yips, and although the space they occupy is not great in extent, the
wee country is all their own.  The Yips had never--up to the time this
story begins--left their broad tableland to go down into the Land of
Oz, nor had the Oz people ever climbed up to the country of the Yips.

Living all alone as they did, the Yips had queer ways and notions of
their own and did not resemble any other people of the Land of Oz.
Their houses were scattered all over the flat surface; not like a city,
grouped together, but set wherever their owners' fancy dictated, with
fields here, trees there, and odd little paths connecting the houses
one with another.  It was here, on the morning when Ozma so strangely
disappeared from the Emerald City, that Cayke the Cookie Cook
discovered that her diamond-studded gold dishpan had been stolen, and
she raised such a hue and cry over her loss and wailed and shrieked so
loudly that many of the Yips gathered around her house to inquire what
was the matter.

It was a serious thing in any part of the Land of Oz to accuse one of
stealing, so when the Yips heard Cayke the Cookie Cook declare that her
jeweled dishpan had been stolen, they were both humiliated and
disturbed and forced Cayke to go with them to the Frogman to see what
could be done about it.  I do not suppose you have ever before heard of
the Frogman, for like all other dwellers on that tableland, he had
never been away from it, nor had anyone come up there to see him.  The
Frogman was in truth descended from the common frogs of Oz, and when he
was first born he lived in a pool in the Winkie Country and was much
like any other frog.  Being of an adventurous nature, however, he soon
hopped out of his pool and began to travel, when a big bird came along
and seized him in its beak and started to fly away with him to its
nest.  When high in the air, the frog wriggled so frantically that he
got loose and fell down, down, down into a small hidden pool on the
tableland of the Yips.  Now that pool, it seems, was unknown to the
Yips because it was surrounded by thick bushes and was not near to any
dwelling, and it proved to be an enchanted pool, for the frog grew very
fast and very big, feeding on the magic skosh which is found nowhere
else on earth except in that one pool.  And the skosh not only made the
frog very big so that when he stood on his hind legs he was as tall as
any Yip in the country, but it made him unusually intelligent, so that
he soon knew more than the Yips did and was able to reason and to argue
very well indeed.

No one could expect a frog with these talents to remain in a hidden
pool, so he finally got out of it and mingled with the people of the
tableland, who were amazed at his appearance and greatly impressed by
his learning.  They had never seen a frog before, and the frog had
never seen a Yip before, but as there were plenty of Yips and only one
frog, the frog became the most important.  He did not hop any more, but
stood upright on his hind legs and dressed himself in fine clothes and
sat in chairs and did all the things that people do, so he soon came to
be called the Frogman, and that is the only name he has ever had.
After some years had passed, the people came to regard the Frogman as
their adviser in all matters that puzzled them.  They brought all their
difficulties to him, and when he did not know anything, he pretended to
know it, which seemed to answer just as well.  Indeed, the Yips thought
the Frogman was much wiser than he really was, and he allowed them to
think so, being very proud of his position of authority.

There was another pool on the tableland which was not enchanted but
contained good, clear water and was located close to the dwellings.
Here the people built the Frogman a house of his own, close to the edge
of the pool so that he could take a bath or a swim whenever he wished.
He usually swam in the pool in the early morning before anyone else was
up, and during the day he dressed himself in his beautiful clothes and
sat in his house and received the visits of all the Yips who came to
him to ask his advice.  The Frogman's usual costume consisted of
knee-breeches made of yellow satin plush, with trimmings of gold braid
and jeweled knee-buckles; a white satin vest with silver buttons in
which were set solitaire rubies; a swallow-tailed coat of bright
yellow; green stockings and red leather shoes turned up at the toes and
having diamond buckles.  He wore, when he walked out, a purple silk hat
and carried a gold-headed cane.  Over his eyes he wore great spectacles
with gold rims, not because his eyes were bad, but because the
spectacles made him look wise, and so distinguished and gorgeous was
his appearance that all the Yips were very proud of him.

There was no King or Queen in the Yip Country, so the simple
inhabitants naturally came to look upon the Frogman as their leader as
well as their counselor in all times of emergency.  In his heart the
big frog knew he was no wiser than the Yips, but for a frog to know as
much as a person was quite remarkable, and the Frogman was shrewd
enough to make the people believe he was far more wise than he really
was.  They never suspected he was a humbug, but listened to his words
with great respect and did just what he advised them to do.

Now when Cayke the Cookie Cook raised such an outcry over the theft of
her diamond-studded dishpan, the first thought of the people was to
take her to the Frogman and inform him of the loss, thinking that of
course he would tell her where to find it.  He listened to the story
with his big eyes wide open behind his spectacles, and said in his
deep, croaking voice, "If the dishpan is stolen, somebody must have
taken it."

"But who?" asked Cayke anxiously.  "Who is the thief?"

"The one who took the dishpan, of course," replied the Frogman, and
hearing this all the Yips nodded their heads gravely and said to one
another, "It is absolutely true!"

"But I want my dishpan!" cried Cayke.

"No one can blame you for that wish," remarked the Frogman.

"Then tell me where I may find it," she urged.

The look the Frogman gave her was a very wise look, and he rose from
his chair and strutted up and down the room with his hands under his
coattails in a very pompous and imposing manner.  This was the first
time so difficult a matter had been brought to him, and he wanted time
to think.  It would never do to let them suspect his ignorance, and so
he thought very, very hard how best to answer the woman without
betraying himself.  "I beg to inform you," said he, "that nothing in
the Yip Country has ever been stolen before."

"We know that already," answered Cayke the Cookie Cook impatiently.

"Therefore," continued the Frogman, "this theft becomes a very
important matter."

"Well, where is my dishpan?" demanded the woman.

"It is lost, but it must be found.  Unfortunately, we have no policemen
or detectives to unravel the mystery, so we must employ other means to
regain the lost article.  Cayke must first write a Proclamation and
tack it to the door of her house, and the Proclamation must read that
whoever stole the jeweled dishpan must return it at once."

"But suppose no one returns it," suggested Cayke.

"Then," said the Frogman, "that very fact will be proof that no one has
stolen it."

Cayke was not satisfied, but the other Yips seemed to approve the plan
highly.  They all advised her to do as the Frogman had told her to, so
she posted the sign on her door and waited patiently for someone to
return the dishpan--which no one ever did.  Again she went, accompanied
by a group of her neighbors, to the Frogman, who by this time had given
the matter considerable thought.  Said he to Cayke, "I am now convinced
that no Yip has taken your dishpan, and since it is gone from the Yip
Country, I suspect that some stranger came from the world down below us
in the darkness of night when all of us were asleep and took away your
treasure.  There can be no other explanation of its disappearance.  So
if you wish to recover that golden, diamond-studded dishpan, you must
go into the lower world after it."

This was indeed a startling proposition.  Cayke and her friends went to
the edge of the flat tableland and looked down the steep hillside to
the plains below.  It was so far to the bottom of the hill that nothing
there could be seen very distinctly, and it seemed to the Yips very
venturesome, if not dangerous, to go so far from home into an unknown
land.  However, Cayke wanted her dishpan very badly, so she turned to
her friends and asked, "Who will go with me?"

No one answered the question, but after a period of silence one of the
Yips said, "We know what is here on the top of this flat hill, and it
seems to us a very pleasant place, but what is down below we do not
know.  The chances are it is not so pleasant, so we had best stay where
we are."

"It may be a far better country than this is," suggested the Cookie
Cook.

"Maybe, maybe," responded another Yip, "but why take chances?
Contentment with one's lot is true wisdom. Perhaps in some other
country there are better cookies than you cook, but as we have always
eaten your cookies and liked them--except when they are burned on the
bottom--we do not long for any better ones."

Cayke might have agreed to this argument had she not been so anxious to
find her precious dishpan, but now she exclaimed impatiently, "You are
cowards, all of you!  If none of you are willing to explore with me the
great world beyond this small hill, I will surely go alone."

"That is a wise resolve," declared the Yips, much relieved.  "It is
your dishpan that is lost, not ours.  And if you are willing to risk
your life and liberty to regain it, no one can deny you the privilege."

While they were thus conversing, the Frogman joined them and looked
down at the plain with his big eyes and seemed unusually thoughtful. In
fact, the Frogman was thinking that he'd like to see more of the world.
Here in the Yip Country he had become the most important creature of
them all, and his importance was getting to be a little tame.  It would
be nice to have other people defer to him and ask his advice, and there
seemed no reason so far as he could see why his fame should not spread
throughout all Oz.  He knew nothing of the rest of the world, but it
was reasonable to believe that there were more people beyond the
mountain where he now lived than there were Yips, and if he went among
them he could surprise them with his display of wisdom and make them
bow down to him as the Yips did.  In other words, the Frogman was
ambitious to become still greater than he was, which was impossible if
he always remained upon this mountain.  He wanted others to see his
gorgeous clothes and listen to his solemn sayings, and here was an
excuse for him to get away from the Yip Country.  So he said to Cayke
the Cookie Cook, "I will go with you, my good woman," which greatly
pleased Cayke because she felt the Frogman could be of much assistance
to her in her search.

But now, since the mighty Frogman had decided to undertake the journey,
several of the Yips who were young and daring at once made up their
minds to go along, so the next morning after breakfast the Frogman and
Cayke the Cookie Cook and nine of the Yips started to slide down the
side of the mountain.  The bramble bushes and cactus plants were very
prickly and uncomfortable to the touch, so the Frogman quickly
commanded the Yips to go first and break a path, so that when he
followed them he would not tear his splendid clothes. Cayke, too, was
wearing her best dress and was likewise afraid of the thorns and
prickers, so she kept behind the Frogman.

They made rather slow progress and night overtook them before they were
halfway down the mountainside, so they found a cave in which they
sought shelter until morning.  Cayke had brought along a basket full of
her famous cookies, so they all had plenty to eat.  On the second day
the Yips began to wish they had not embarked on this adventure. They
grumbled a good deal at having to cut away the thorns to make the path
for the Frogman and the Cookie Cook, for their own clothing suffered
many tears, while Cayke and the Frogman traveled safely and in comfort.

"If it is true that anyone came to our country to steal your diamond
dishpan," said one of the Yips to Cayke, "it must have been a bird, for
no person in the form of a man, woman or child could have climbed
through these bushes and back again."

"And, allowing he could have done so," said another Yip, "the
diamond-studded gold dishpan would not have repaid him for his troubles
and his tribulations."

"For my part," remarked a third Yip, "I would rather go back home and
dig and polish some more diamonds and mine some more gold and make you
another dishpan than be scratched from head to heel by these dreadful
bushes.  Even now, if my mother saw me, she would not know I am her
son."

Cayke paid no heed to these mutterings, nor did the Frogman.  Although
their journey was slow, it was being made easy for them by the Yips, so
they had nothing to complain of and no desire to turn back.  Quite near
to the bottom of the great hill they came upon a great gulf, the sides
of which were as smooth as glass.  The gulf extended a long
distance--as far as they could see in either direction--and although it
was not very wide, it was far too wide for the Yips to leap across it.
And should they fall into it, it was likely they might never get out
again.  "Here our journey ends," said the Yips. "We must go back again."

Cayke the Cookie Cook began to weep.

"I shall never find my pretty dishpan again, and my heart will be
broken!" she sobbed.

The Frogman went to the edge of the gulf and with his eye carefully
measured the distance to the other side.  "Being a frog," said he, "I
can leap, as all frogs do, and being so big and strong, I am sure I can
leap across this gulf with ease.  But the rest of you, not being frogs,
must return the way you came."

"We will do that with pleasure," cried the Yips, and at once they
turned and began to climb up the steep mountain, feeling they had had
quite enough of this unsatisfactory adventure.  Cayke the Cookie Cook
did not go with them, however.  She sat on a rock and wept and wailed
and was very miserable.

"Well," said the Frogman to her, "I will now bid you goodbye.  If I
find your diamond-decorated gold dishpan, I will promise to see that it
is safely returned to you."

"But I prefer to find it myself!" she said. "See here, Frogman, why
can't you carry me across the gulf when you leap it?  You are big and
strong, while I am small and thin."

The Frogman gravely thought over this suggestion. It was a fact that
Cayke the Cookie Cook was not a heavy person.  Perhaps he could leap
the gulf with her on his back.  "If you are willing to risk a fall,"
said he, "I will make the attempt."

At once she sprang up and grabbed him around his neck with both her
arms.  That is, she grabbed him where his neck ought to be, for the
Frogman had no neck at all.  Then he squatted down, as frogs do when
they leap, and with his powerful rear legs he made a tremendous jump.
Over the gulf they sailed, with the Cookie Cook on his back, and he had
leaped so hard--to make sure of not falling in--that he sailed over a
lot of bramble bushes that grew on the other side and landed in a clear
space which was so far beyond the gulf that when they looked back they
could not see it at all.

Cayke now got off the Frogman's back and he stood erect again and
carefully brushed the dust from his velvet coat and rearranged his
white satin necktie.

"I had no idea I could leap so far," he said wonderingly.  "Leaping is
one more accomplishment I can now add to the long list of deeds I am
able to perform."

"You are certainly fine at leap-frog," said the Cookie Cook admiringly,
"but, as you say, you are wonderful in many ways.  If we meet with any
people down here, I am sure they will consider you the greatest and
grandest of all living creatures."

"Yes," he replied, "I shall probably astonish strangers, because they
have never before had the pleasure of seeing me.  Also, they will
marvel at my great learning.  Every time I open my mouth, Cayke, I am
liable to say something important."

"That is true," she agreed, "and it is fortunate your mouth is so very
wide and opens so far, for otherwise all the wisdom might not be able
to get out of it."

"Perhaps nature made it wide for that very reason," said the Frogman.
"But come, let us now go on, for it is getting late and we must find
some sort of shelter before night overtakes us."




CHAPTER 4

AMONG THE WINKIES


The settled parts of the Winkie Country are full of happy and contented
people who are ruled by a tin Emperor named Nick Chopper, who in turn
is a subject of the beautiful girl Ruler, Ozma of Oz.  But not all of
the Winkie Country is fully settled.  At the east, which part lies
nearest the Emerald City, there are beautiful farmhouses and roads, but
as you travel west, you first come to a branch of the Winkie River,
beyond which there is a rough country where few people live, and some
of these are quite unknown to the rest of the world. After passing
through this rude section of territory, which no one ever visits, you
would come to still another branch of the Winkie River, after crossing
which you would find another well-settled part of the Winkie Country
extending westward quite to the Deadly Desert that surrounds all the
Land of Oz and separates that favored fairyland from the more common
outside world.  The Winkies who live in this west section have many tin
mines, from which metal they make a great deal of rich jewelry and
other articles, all of which are highly esteemed in the Land of Oz
because tin is so bright and pretty and there is not so much of it as
there is of gold and silver.

Not all the Winkies are miners, however, for some till the fields and
grow grains for food, and it was at one of these far-west Winkie farms
that the Frogman and Cayke the Cookie Cook first arrived after they had
descended from the mountain of the Yips.  "Goodness me!" cried Nellary
the Winkie wife when she saw the strange couple approaching her house.
"I have seen many queer creatures in the Land of Oz, but none more
queer than this giant frog who dresses like a man and walks on his hind
legs.  Come here, Wiljon," she called to her husband, who was eating
his breakfast, "and take a look at this astonishing freak."

Wiljon the Winkie came to the door and looked out.  He was still
standing in the doorway when the Frogman approached and said with a
haughty croak, "Tell me, my good man, have you seen a diamond-studded
gold dishpan?"

"No, nor have I seen a copper-plated lobster," replied Wiljon in an
equally haughty tone.

The Frogman stared at him and said, "Do not be insolent, fellow!"

"No," added Cayke the Cookie Cook hastily, "you must be very polite to
the great Frogman, for he is the wisest creature in all the world."

"Who says that?" inquired Wiljon.

"He says so himself," replied Cayke, and the Frogman nodded and
strutted up and down, twirling his gold-headed cane very gracefully.

"Does the Scarecrow admit that this overgrown frog is the wisest
creature in the world?" asked Wiljon.

"I do not know who the Scarecrow is," answered Cayke the Cookie Cook.

"Well, he lives at the Emerald City, and he is supposed to have the
finest brains in all Oz.  The Wizard gave them to him, you know."

"Mine grew in my head," said the Frogman pompously, "so I think they
must be better than any wizard brains.  I am so wise that sometimes my
wisdom makes my head ache.  I know so much that often I have to forget
part of it, since no one creature, however great, is able to contain so
much knowledge."

"It must be dreadful to be stuffed full of wisdom," remarked Wiljon
reflectively and eyeing the Frogman with a doubtful look.  "It is my
good fortune to know very little."

"I hope, however, you know where my jeweled dishpan is," said the
Cookie Cook anxiously.

"I do not know even that," returned the Winkie.  "We have trouble
enough in keeping track of our own dishpans without meddling with the
dishpans of strangers."

Finding him so ignorant, the Frogman proposed that they walk on and
seek Cayke's dishpan elsewhere.  Wiljon the Winkie did not seem greatly
impressed by the great Frogman, which seemed to that personage as
strange as it was disappointing.  But others in this unknown land might
prove more respectful.

"I'd like to meet that Wizard of Oz," remarked Cayke as they walked
along a path.  "If he could give a Scarecrow brains, he might be able
to find my dishpan."

"Poof!" grunted the Frogman scornfully.  "I am greater than any wizard.
Depend on ME.  If your dishpan is anywhere in the world, I am sure to
find it."

"If you do not, my heart will be broken," declared the Cookie Cook in a
sorrowful voice.

For a while the Frogman walked on in silence. Then he asked, "Why do
you attach so much importance to a dishpan?"

"It is the greatest treasure I possess," replied the woman.  "It
belonged to my mother and to all my grandmothers since the beginning of
time.  It is, I believe, the very oldest thing in all the Yip
Country--or was while it was there--and," she added, dropping her voice
to an awed whisper, "it has magic powers!"

"In what way?" inquired the Frogman, seeming to be surprised at this
statement.

"Whoever has owned that dishpan has been a good cook, for one thing. No
one else is able to make such good cookies as I have cooked, as you and
all the Yips know.  Yet the very morning after my dishpan was stolen, I
tried to make a batch of cookies and they burned up in the oven!  I
made another batch that proved too tough to eat, and I was so ashamed
of them that I buried them in the ground.  Even the third batch of
cookies, which I brought with me in my basket, were pretty poor stuff
and no better than any woman could make who does not own my
diamond-studded gold dishpan.  In fact, my good Frogman, Cayke the
Cookie Cook will never be able to cook good cookies again until her
magic dishpan is restored to her."

"In that case," said the Frogman with a sigh, "I suppose we must manage
to find it."




CHAPTER 5

OZMA'S FRIENDS ARE PERPLEXED


"Really," said Dorothy, looking solemn, "this is very s'prising.  We
can't even find a shadow of Ozma anywhere in the Em'rald City, and
wherever she's gone, she's taken her Magic Picture with her."  She was
standing in the courtyard of the palace with Betsy and Trot, while
Scraps, the Patchwork Girl, danced around the group, her hair flying in
the wind.

"P'raps," said Scraps, still dancing, "someone has stolen Ozma."

"Oh, they'd never dare do that!" exclaimed tiny Trot.

"And stolen the Magic Picture, too, so the thing can't tell where she
is," added the Patchwork Girl.

"That's nonsense," said Dorothy.  "Why, ev'ryone loves Ozma.  There
isn't a person in the Land of Oz who would steal a single thing she
owns."

"Huh!" replied the Patchwork Girl.  "You don't know ev'ry person in the
Land of Oz."

"Why don't I?"

"It's a big country," said Scraps.  "There are cracks and corners in it
that even Ozma doesn't know of."

"The Patchwork Girl's just daffy," declared Betsy.

"No, she's right about that," replied Dorothy thoughtfully.  "There are
lots of queer people in this fairyland who never come near Ozma or the
Em'rald City.  I've seen some of 'em myself, girls.  But I haven't seen
all, of course, and there MIGHT be some wicked persons left in Oz yet,
though I think the wicked witches have all been destroyed."

Just then the Wooden Sawhorse dashed into the courtyard with the Wizard
of Oz on his back.  "Have you found Ozma?" cried the Wizard when the
Sawhorse stopped beside them.

"Not yet," said Dorothy.  "Doesn't Glinda the Good know where she is?"

"No.  Glinda's Book of Records and all her magic instruments are gone.
Someone must have stolen them."

"Goodness me!" exclaimed Dorothy in alarm.  "This is the biggest steal
I ever heard of.  Who do you think did it, Wizard?"

"I've no idea," he answered.  "But I have come to get my own bag of
magic tools and carry them to Glinda.  She is so much more powerful
than I that she may be able to discover the truth by means of my magic
quicker and better than I could myself."

"Hurry, then," said Dorothy, "for we've all gotten terr'bly worried."

The Wizard rushed away to his rooms but presently came back with a
long, sad face.  "It's gone!" he said.

"What's gone?" asked Scraps.

"My black bag of magic tools. Someone must have stolen it!"

They looked at one another in amazement.

"This thing is getting desperate," continued the Wizard. "All the magic
that belongs to Ozma or to Glinda or to me has been stolen."

"Do you suppose Ozma could have taken them, herself, for some purpose?"
asked Betsy.

"No indeed," declared the Wizard.  "I suspect some enemy has stolen
Ozma and for fear we would follow and recapture her has taken all our
magic away from us."

"How dreadful!" cried Dorothy. "The idea of anyone wanting to injure
our dear Ozma!  Can't we do ANYthing to find her, Wizard?"

"I'll ask Glinda.  I must go straight back to her and tell her that my
magic tools have also disappeared.  The good Sorceress will be greatly
shocked, I know."

With this, he jumped upon the back of the Sawhorse again, and the
quaint steed, which never tired, dashed away at full speed.  The three
girls were very much disturbed in mind.  Even the Patchwork Girl seemed
to realize that a great calamity had overtaken them all.  Ozma was a
fairy of considerable power, and all the creatures in Oz as well as the
three mortal girls from the outside world looked upon her as their
protector and friend.  The idea of their beautiful girl Ruler's being
overpowered by an enemy and dragged from her splendid palace a captive
was too astonishing for them to comprehend at first.  Yet what other
explanation of the mystery could there be?

"Ozma wouldn't go away willingly, without letting us know about it,"
asserted Dorothy, "and she wouldn't steal Glinda's Great Book of
Records or the Wizard's magic, 'cause she could get them any time just
by asking for 'em.  I'm sure some wicked person has done all this."

"Someone in the Land of Oz?" asked Trot.

"Of course.  No one could get across the Deadly Desert, you know, and
no one but an Oz person could know about the Magic Picture and the Book
of Records and the Wizard's magic or where they were kept, and so be
able to steal the whole outfit before we could stop 'em.  It MUST be
someone who lives in the Land of Oz."

"But who--who--who?" asked Scraps.  "That's the question.  Who?"

"If we knew," replied Dorothy severely, "we wouldn't be standing here
doing nothing."

Just then two boys entered the courtyard and approached the group of
girls.  One boy was dressed in the fantastic Munchkin costume--a blue
jacket and knickerbockers, blue leather shoes and a blue hat with a
high peak and tiny silver bells dangling from its rim--and this was Ojo
the Lucky, who had once come from the Munchkin Country of Oz and now
lived in the Emerald City.  The other boy was an American from
Philadelphia and had lately found his way to Oz in the company of Trot
and Cap'n Bill.  His name was Button-Bright; that is, everyone called
him by that name and knew no other.  Button-Bright was not quite as big
as the Munchkin boy, but he wore the same kind of clothes, only they
were of different colors.  As the two came up to the girls, arm in arm,
Button-Bright remarked, "Hello, Dorothy.  They say Ozma is lost."

"WHO says so?" she asked.

"Ev'rybody's talking about it in the City," he replied.

"I wonder how the people found it out," Dorothy asked.

"I know," said Ojo.  "Jellia Jamb told them. She has been asking
everywhere if anyone has seen Ozma."

"That's too bad," observed Dorothy, frowning.

"Why?" asked Button-Bright.

"There wasn't any use making all our people unhappy till we were dead
certain that Ozma can't be found."

"Pshaw," said Button-Bright, "it's nothing to get lost.  I've been lost
lots of times."

"That's true," admitted Trot, who knew that the boy had a habit of
getting lost and then finding himself again, "but it's diff'rent with
Ozma.  She's the Ruler of all this big fairyland, and we're 'fraid that
the reason she's lost is because somebody has stolen her away."

"Only wicked people steal," said Ojo.  "Do you know of any wicked
people in Oz, Dorothy?"

"No," she replied.

"They're here, though," cried Scraps, dancing up to them and then
circling around the group.  "Ozma's stolen; someone in Oz stole her;
only wicked people steal; so someone in Oz is wicked!"

There was no denying the truth of this statement.  The faces of all of
them were now solemn and sorrowful.  "One thing is sure," said
Button-Bright after a time, "if Ozma has been stolen, someone ought to
find her and punish the thief."

"There may be a lot of thieves," suggested Trot gravely, "and in this
fairy country they don't seem to have any soldiers or policemen."

"There is one soldier," claimed Dorothy.

"He has green whiskers and a gun and is a Major-General, but no one is
afraid of either his gun or his whiskers, 'cause he's so tender-hearted
that he wouldn't hurt a fly."


"Well, a soldier is a soldier," said Betsy, "and perhaps he'd hurt a
wicked thief if he wouldn't hurt a fly.  Where is he?"

"He went fishing about two months ago and hasn't come back yet,"
explained Button-Bright.

"Then I can't see that he will be of much use to us in this trouble,"
sighed little Trot.  "But p'raps Ozma, who is a fairy, can get away
from the thieves without any help from anyone."

"She MIGHT be able to," answered Dorothy reflectively, "but if she had
the power to do that, it isn't likely she'd have let herself be stolen.
So the thieves must have been even more powerful in magic than our
Ozma."

There was no denying this argument, and although they talked the matter
over all the rest of that day, they were unable to decide how Ozma had
been stolen against her will or who had committed the dreadful deed.
Toward evening the Wizard came back, riding slowly upon the Sawhorse
because he felt discouraged and perplexed.  Glinda came later in her
aerial chariot drawn by twenty milk-white swans, and she also seemed
worried and unhappy.  More of Ozma's friends joined them, and that
evening they all had a big talk together.  "I think," said Dorothy, "we
ought to start out right away in search of our dear Ozma.  It seems
cruel for us to live comf'tably in her palace while she is a pris'ner
in the power of some wicked enemy."

"Yes," agreed Glinda the Sorceress, "someone ought to search for her. I
cannot go myself, because I must work hard in order to create some new
instruments of sorcery by means of which I may rescue our fair Ruler.
But if you can find her in the meantime and let me know who has stolen
her, it will enable me to rescue her much more quickly."

"Then we'll start tomorrow morning," decided Dorothy.  "Betsy and Trot
and I won't waste another minute."

"I'm not sure you girls will make good detectives," remarked the
Wizard, "but I'll go with you to protect you from harm and to give you
my advice.  All my wizardry, alas, is stolen, so I am now really no
more a wizard than any of you, but I will try to protect you from any
enemies you may meet."

"What harm could happen to us in Oz?" inquired Trot.

"What harm happened to Ozma?" returned the Wizard.

"If there is an Evil Power abroad in our fairyland, which is able to
steal not only Ozma and her Magic Picture, but Glinda's Book of Records
and all her magic, and my black bag containing all my tricks of
wizardry, then that Evil Power may yet cause us considerable injury.
Ozma is a fairy, and so is Glinda, so no power can kill or destroy
them, but you girls are all mortals and so are Button-Bright and I, so
we must watch out for ourselves."

"Nothing can kill me," said Ojo the Munchkin boy.

"That is true," replied the Sorceress, "and I think it may be well to
divide the searchers into several parties, that they may cover all the
land of Oz more quickly.  So I will send Ojo and Unc Nunkie and Dr.
Pipt into the Munchkin Country, which they are well acquainted with;
and I will send the Scarecrow and the Tin Woodman into the Quadling
Country, for they are fearless and brave and never tire; and to the
Gillikin Country, where many dangers lurk, I will send the Shaggy Man
and his brother, with Tik-Tok and Jack Pumpkinhead.  Dorothy may make
up her own party and travel into the Winkie Country.  All of you must
inquire everywhere for Ozma and try to discover where she is hidden."

They thought this a very wise plan and adopted it without question. In
Ozma's absence, Glinda the Good was the most important person in Oz,
and all were glad to serve under her direction.




CHAPTER 6

THE SEARCH PARTY


Next morning as soon as the sun was up, Glinda flew back to her castle,
stopping on the way to instruct the Scarecrow and the Tin Woodman, who
were at that time staying at the college of Professor H. M. Wogglebug,
T.E., and taking a course of his Patent Educational Pills.

On hearing of Ozma's loss, they started at once for the Quadling
Country to search for her.  As soon as Glinda had left the Emerald
City, Tik-Tok and the Shaggy Man and Jack Pumpkinhead, who had been
present at the conference, began their journey into the Gillikin
Country, and an hour later Ojo and Unc Nunkie joined Dr.  Pipt and
together they traveled toward the Munchkin Country.  When all these
searchers were gone, Dorothy and the Wizard completed their own
preparations.

The Wizard hitched the Sawhorse to the Red Wagon, which would seat four
very comfortably.  He wanted Dorothy, Betsy, Trot and the Patchwork
Girl to ride in the wagon, but Scraps came up to them mounted upon the
Woozy, and the Woozy said he would like to join the party.  Now this
Woozy was a most peculiar animal, having a square head, square body,
square legs and square tail.  His skin was very tough and hard,
resembling leather, and while his movements were somewhat clumsy, the
beast could travel with remarkable swiftness. His square eyes were mild
and gentle in expression, and he was not especially foolish.  The Woozy
and the Patchwork Girl were great friends, and so the Wizard agreed to
let the Woozy go with them.

Another great beast now appeared and asked to go along.  This was none
other than the famous Cowardly Lion, one of the most interesting
creatures in all Oz.  No lion that roamed the jungles or plains could
compare in size or intelligence with this Cowardly Lion, who--like all
animals living in Oz--could talk and who talked with more shrewdness
and wisdom than many of the people did.  He said he was cowardly
because he always trembled when he faced danger, but he had faced
danger many times and never refused to fight when it was necessary.
This Lion was a great favorite with Ozma and always guarded her throne
on state occasions.  He was also an old companion and friend of the
Princess Dorothy, so the girl was delighted to have him join the party.

"I'm so nervous over our dear Ozma," said the Cowardly Lion in his
deep, rumbling voice, "that it would make me unhappy to remain behind
while you are trying to find her.  But do not get into any danger, I
beg of you, for danger frightens me terribly."

"We'll not get into danger if we can poss'bly help it," promised
Dorothy, "but we shall do anything to find Ozma, danger or no danger."

The addition of the Woozy and the Cowardly Lion to the party gave Betsy
Bobbin an idea, and she ran to the marble stables at the rear of the
palace and brought out her mule, Hank by name.  Perhaps no mule you
ever saw was so lean and bony and altogether plain looking as this
Hank, but Betsy loved him dearly because he was faithful and steady and
not nearly so stupid as most mules are considered to be.  Betsy had a
saddle for Hank, and he declared she would ride on his back, an
arrangement approved by the Wizard because it left only four of the
party to ride on the seats of the Red Wagon--Dorothy and Button-Bright
and Trot and himself.

An old sailor man who had one wooden leg came to see them off and
suggested that they put a supply of food and blankets in the Red Wagon
inasmuch as they were uncertain how long they would be gone.  This
sailor man was called Cap'n Bill.  He was a former friend and comrade
of Trot and had encountered many adventures in company with the little
girl.  I think he was sorry he could not go with her on this trip, but
Glinda the Sorceress had asked Cap'n Bill to remain in the Emerald City
and take charge of the royal palace while everyone else was away, and
the one-legged sailor had agreed to do so.

They loaded the back end of the Red Wagon with everything they thought
they might need, and then they formed a procession and marched from the
palace through the Emerald City to the great gates of the wall that
surrounded this beautiful capital of the Land of Oz.  Crowds of
citizens lined the streets to see them pass and to cheer them and wish
them success, for all were grieved over Ozma's loss and anxious that
she be found again.  First came the Cowardly Lion, then the Patchwork
Girl riding upon the Woozy, then Betsy Bobbin on her mule Hank, and
finally the Sawhorse drawing the Red Wagon, in which were seated the
Wizard and Dorothy and Button-Bright and Trot.  No one was obliged to
drive the Sawhorse, so there were no reins to his harness; one had only
to tell him which way to go, fast or slow, and he understood perfectly.

It was about this time that a shaggy little black dog who had been
lying asleep in Dorothy's room in the palace woke up and discovered he
was lonesome.  Everything seemed very still throughout the great
building, and Toto--that was the little dog's name--missed the
customary chatter of the three girls.  He never paid much attention to
what was going on around him, and although he could speak, he seldom
said anything, so the little dog did not know about Ozma's loss or that
everyone had gone in search of her.  But he liked to be with people,
and especially with his own mistress, Dorothy, and having yawned and
stretched himself and found the door of the room ajar, he trotted out
into the corridor and went down the stately marble stairs to the hall
of the palace, where he met Jellia Jamb.

"Where's Dorothy?" asked Toto.

"She's gone to the Winkie Country," answered the maid.

"When?"

"A little while ago," replied Jellia.

Toto turned and trotted out into the palace garden and down the long
driveway until he came to the streets of the Emerald City.  Here he
paused to listen, and hearing sounds of cheering, he ran swiftly along
until he came in sight of the Red Wagon and the Woozy and the Lion and
the Mule and all the others.  Being a wise little dog, he decided not
to show himself to Dorothy just then, lest he be sent back home, but he
never lost sight of the party of travelers, all of whom were so eager
to get ahead that they never thought to look behind them.  When they
came to the gates in the city wall, the Guardian of the Gates came out
to throw wide the golden portals and let them pass through.

"Did any strange person come in or out of the city on the night before
last when Ozma was stolen?" asked Dorothy.

"No indeed, Princess," answered the Guardian of the Gates.

"Of course not," said the Wizard. "Anyone clever enough to steal all
the things we have lost would not mind the barrier of a wall like this
in the least.  I think the thief must have flown through the air, for
otherwise he could not have stolen from Ozma's royal palace and
Glinda's faraway castle in the same night.  Moreover, as there are no
airships in Oz and no way for airships from the outside world to get
into this country, I believe the thief must have flown from place to
place by means of magic arts which neither Glinda nor I understand."

On they went, and before the gates closed behind them, Toto managed to
dodge through them.  The country surrounding the Emerald City was
thickly settled, and for a while our friends rode over nicely paved
roads which wound through a fertile country dotted with beautiful
houses, all built in the quaint Oz fashion.  In the course of a few
hours, however, they had left the tilled fields and entered the Country
of the Winkies, which occupies a quarter of all the territory in the
Land of Oz but is not so well known as many other parts of Ozma's
fairyland.  Long before night the travelers had crossed the Winkie
River near to the Scarecrow's Tower (which was now vacant) and had
entered the Rolling Prairie where few people live.  They asked everyone
they met for news of Ozma, but none in this district had seen her or
even knew that she had been stolen.  And by nightfall they had passed
all the farmhouses and were obliged to stop and ask for shelter at the
hut of a lonely shepherd.  When they halted, Toto was not far behind.
The little dog halted, too, and stealing softly around the party, he
hid himself behind the hut.

The shepherd was a kindly old man and treated the travelers with much
courtesy.  He slept out of doors that night, giving up his hut to the
three girls, who made their beds on the floor with the blankets they
had brought in the Red Wagon.  The Wizard and Button-Bright also slept
out of doors, and so did the Cowardly Lion and Hank the Mule.  But
Scraps and the Sawhorse did not sleep at all, and the Woozy could stay
awake for a month at a time if he wished to, so these three sat in a
little group by themselves and talked together all through the night.

In the darkness, the Cowardly Lion felt a shaggy little form nestling
beside his own, and he said sleepily, "Where did you come from, Toto?"

"From home," said the dog. "If you roll over, roll the other way so you
won't smash me."

"Does Dorothy know you are here?" asked the Lion.

"I believe not," admitted Toto, and he added a little anxiously, "Do
you think, friend Lion, we are now far enough from the Emerald City for
me to risk showing myself, or will Dorothy send me back because I
wasn't invited?"

"Only Dorothy can answer that question," said the Lion.  "For my part,
Toto, I consider this affair none of my business, so you must act as
you think best."  Then the huge beast went to sleep again, and Toto
snuggled closer to the warm, hairy body and also slept.  He was a wise
little dog in his way, and didn't intend to worry when there was
something much better to do.

In the morning the Wizard built a fire, over which the girls cooked a
very good breakfast.  Suddenly Dorothy discovered Toto sitting quietly
before the fire, and the little girl exclaimed, "Goodness me, Toto!
Where did YOU come from?"

"From the place you cruelly left me," replied the dog in a reproachful
tone.

"I forgot all about you," admitted Dorothy, "and if I hadn't, I'd
prob'ly left you with Jellia Jamb, seeing this isn't a pleasure trip
but stric'ly business.  But now that you're here, Toto, I s'pose you'll
have to stay with us, unless you'd rather go back again.  We may get
ourselves into trouble before we're done, Toto."

"Never mind that," said Toto, wagging his tail.  "I'm hungry, Dorothy."

"Breakfas'll soon be ready, and then you shall have your share,"
promised his little mistress, who was really glad to have her dog with
her.  She and Toto had traveled together before, and she knew he was a
good and faithful comrade.

When the food was cooked and served, the girls invited the old shepherd
to join them in the morning meal.  He willingly consented, and while
they ate he said to them, "You are now about to pass through a very
dangerous country, unless you turn to the north or to the south to
escape its perils."

"In that case," said the Cowardly Lion, "let us turn, by all means, for
I dread to face dangers of any sort."

"What's the matter with the country ahead of us?" inquired Dorothy.

"Beyond this Rolling Prairie," explained the shepherd, "are the
Merry-Go-Round Mountains, set close together and surrounded by deep
gulfs so that no one is able to get past them.  Beyond the
Merry-Go-Round Mountains it is said the Thistle-Eaters and the Herkus
live."

"What are they like?" demanded Dorothy.

"No one knows, for no one has ever passed the Merry-Go-Round
Mountains," was the reply, "but it is said that the Thistle-Eaters
hitch dragons to their chariots and that the Herkus are waited upon by
giants whom they have conquered and made their slaves."

"Who says all that?" asked Betsy.

"It is common report," declared the shepherd. "Everyone believes it."

"I don't see how they know," remarked little Trot, "if no one has been
there."

"Perhaps the birds who fly over that country brought the news,"
suggested Betsy.

"If you escaped those dangers," continued the shepherd, "you might
encounter others still more serious before you came to the next branch
of the Winkie River.  It is true that beyond that river there lies a
fine country inhabited by good people, and if you reached there, you
would have no further trouble.  It is between here and the west branch
of the Winkie River that all dangers lie, for that is the unknown
territory that is inhabited by terrible, lawless people."

"It may be, and it may not be," said the Wizard.  "We shall know when
we get there."

"Well," persisted the shepherd, "in a fairy country such as ours, every
undiscovered place is likely to harbor wicked creatures.  If they were
not wicked, they would discover themselves and by coming among us
submit to Ozma's rule and be good and considerate, as are all the Oz
people whom we know."

"That argument," stated the little Wizard, "convinces me that it is our
duty to go straight to those unknown places, however dangerous they may
be, for it is surely some cruel and wicked person who has stolen our
Ozma, and we know it would be folly to search among good people for the
culprit.  Ozma may not be hidden in the secret places of the Winkie
Country, it is true, but it is our duty to travel to every spot,
however dangerous, where our beloved Ruler is likely to be imprisoned."

"You're right about that," said Button-Bright approvingly.  "Dangers
don't hurt us.  Only things that happen ever hurt anyone, and a danger
is a thing that might happen and might not happen, and sometimes don't
amount to shucks.  I vote we go ahead and take our chances."

They were all of the same opinion, so they packed up and said goodbye
to the friendly shepherd and proceeded on their way.




CHAPTER 7

THE MERRY-GO-ROUND MOUNTAINS


The Rolling Prairie was not difficult to travel over, although it was
all uphill and downhill, so for a while they made good progress.  Not
even a shepherd was to be met with now, and the farther they advanced
the more dreary the landscape became.  At noon they stopped for a
"picnic luncheon," as Betsy called it, and then they again resumed
their journey.  All the animals were swift and tireless, and even the
Cowardly Lion and the Mule found they could keep up with the pace of
the Woozy and the Sawhorse.

It was the middle of the afternoon when first they came in sight of a
cluster of low mountains.  These were cone-shaped, rising from broad
bases to sharp peaks at the tops.  From a distance the mountains
appeared indistinct and seemed rather small--more like hills than
mountains--but as the travelers drew nearer, they noted a most unusual
circumstance: the hills were all whirling around, some in one direction
and some the opposite way.

"I guess these are the Merry-Go-Round Mountains, all right," said
Dorothy.

"They must be," said the Wizard.

"They go 'round, sure enough," agreed Trot, "but they don't seem very
merry."

There were several rows of these mountains, extending both to the right
and to the left for miles and miles.  How many rows there might be none
could tell, but between the first row of peaks could be seen other
peaks, all steadily whirling around one way or another. Continuing to
ride nearer, our friends watched these hills attentively, until at
last, coming close up, they discovered there was a deep but narrow gulf
around the edge of each mountain, and that the mountains were set so
close together that the outer gulf was continuous and barred farther
advance.  At the edge of the gulf they all dismounted and peered over
into its depths.  There was no telling where the bottom was, if indeed
there was any bottom at all.  From where they stood it seemed as if the
mountains had been set in one great hole in the ground, just close
enough together so they would not touch, and that each mountain was
supported by a rocky column beneath its base which extended far down in
the black pit below.  From the land side it seemed impossible to get
across the gulf or, succeeding in that, to gain a foothold on any of
the whirling mountains.

"This ditch is too wide to jump across," remarked Button-Bright.

"P'raps the Lion could do it," suggested Dorothy.

"What, jump from here to that whirling hill?" cried the Lion
indignantly.  "I should say not!  Even if I landed there and could hold
on, what good would it do?  There's another spinning mountain beyond
it, and perhaps still another beyond that.  I don't believe any living
creature could jump from one mountain to another when both are whirling
like tops and in different directions."

"I propose we turn back," said the Wooden Sawhorse with a yawn of his
chopped-out mouth as he stared with his knot eyes at the Merry-Go-Round
Mountains.

"I agree with you," said the Woozy, wagging his square head.

"We should have taken the shepherd's advice," added Hank the Mule.

The others of the party, however they might be puzzled by the serious
problem that confronted them, would not allow themselves to despair.
"If we once get over these mountains," said Button-Bright, "we could
probably get along all right."

"True enough," agreed Dorothy.  "So we must find some way, of course,
to get past these whirligig hills.  But how?"

"I wish the Ork was with us," sighed Trot.

"But the Ork isn't here," said the Wizard, "and we must depend upon
ourselves to conquer this difficulty.  Unfortunately, all my magic has
been stolen, otherwise I am sure I could easily get over the mountains."

"Unfortunately," observed the Woozy, "none of us has wings.  And we're
in a magic country without any magic."

"What is that around your waist, Dorothy?" asked the Wizard.

"That?  Oh, that's just the Magic Belt I once captured from the Nome
King," she replied.

"A Magic Belt!   Why, that's fine.  I'm sure a Magic Belt would take
you over these hills."

"It might if I knew how to work it," said the little girl.  "Ozma knows
a lot of its magic, but I've never found out about it.  All I know is
that while I am wearing it, nothing can hurt me."

"Try wishing yourself across and see if it will obey you," suggested
the Wizard.

"But what good would that do?" asked Dorothy.  "If I got across, it
wouldn't help the rest of you, and I couldn't go alone among all those
giants and dragons while you stayed here."

"True enough," agreed the Wizard sadly.  And then, after looking around
the group, he inquired, "What is that on your finger, Trot?"

"A ring.  The Mermaids gave it to me," she explained, "and if ever I'm
in trouble when I'm on the water, I can call the Mermaids and they'll
come and help me.  But the Mermaids can't help me on the land, you
know, 'cause they swim, and--and--they haven't any legs."

"True enough," repeated the Wizard, more sadly.

There was a big, broad, spreading tree near the edge of the gulf, and
as the sun was hot above them, they all gathered under the shade of the
tree to study the problem of what to do next.  "If we had a long rope,"
said Betsy, "we could fasten it to this tree and let the other end of
it down into the gulf and all slide down it."

"Well, what then?" asked the Wizard.

"Then, if we could manage to throw the rope up the other side,"
explained the girl, "we could all climb it and be on the other side of
the gulf."

"There are too many 'if's' in that suggestion," remarked the little
Wizard.  "And you must remember that the other side is nothing but
spinning mountains, so we couldn't possibly fasten a rope to them, even
if we had one."

"That rope idea isn't half bad, though," said the Patchwork Girl, who
had been dancing dangerously near to the edge of the gulf.

"What do you mean?" asked Dorothy.

The Patchwork Girl suddenly stood still and cast her button eyes around
the group.  "Ha, I have it!" she exclaimed.  "Unharness the Sawhorse,
somebody.  My fingers are too clumsy."

"Shall we?" asked Button-Bright doubtfully, turning to the others.

"Well, Scraps has a lot of brains, even if she IS stuffed with cotton,"
asserted the Wizard.  "If her brains can help us out of this trouble,
we ought to use them."

So he began unharnessing the Sawhorse, and Button-Bright and Dorothy
helped him.  When they had removed the harness, the Patchwork Girl told
them to take it all apart and buckle the straps together, end to end.
And after they had done this, they found they had one very long strap
that was stronger than any rope.  "It would reach across the gulf
easily," said the Lion, who with the other animals had sat on his
haunches and watched this proceeding.  "But I don't see how it could be
fastened to one of those dizzy mountains."

Scraps had no such notion as that in her baggy head.  She told them to
fasten one end of the strap to a stout limb of the tree, pointing to
one which extended quite to the edge of the gulf.  Button-Bright did
that, climbing the tree and then crawling out upon the limb until he
was nearly over the gulf.  There he managed to fasten the strap, which
reached to the ground below, and then he slid down it and was caught by
the Wizard, who feared he might fall into the chasm.  Scraps was
delighted.  She seized the lower end of the strap, and telling them all
to get out of her way, she went back as far as the strap would reach
and then made a sudden run toward the gulf.  Over the edge she swung,
clinging to the strap until it had gone as far as its length permitted,
when she let go and sailed gracefully through the air until she
alighted upon the mountain just in front of them.

Almost instantly, as the great cone continued to whirl, she was sent
flying against the next mountain in the rear, and that one had only
turned halfway around when Scraps was sent flying to the next mountain
behind it.  Then her patchwork form disappeared from view entirely, and
the amazed watchers under the tree wondered what had become of her.
"She's gone, and she can't get back," said the Woozy.

"My, how she bounded from one mountain to another!" exclaimed the Lion.

"That was because they whirl so fast," the Wizard explained.  "Scraps
had nothing to hold on to, and so of course she was tossed from one
hill to another.  I'm afraid we shall never see the poor Patchwork Girl
again."

"I shall see her," declared the Woozy.  "Scraps is an old friend of
mine, and if there are really Thistle-Eaters and Giants on the other
side of those tops, she will need someone to protect her.  So here I
go!"  He seized the dangling strap firmly in his square mouth, and in
the same way that Scraps had done swung himself over the gulf.  He let
go the strap at the right moment and fell upon the first whirling
mountain.  Then he bounded to the next one back of it--not on his feet,
but "all mixed up," as Trot said--and then he shot across to another
mountain, disappearing from view just as the Patchwork Girl had done.

"It seems to work, all right," remarked Button-Bright.  "I guess I'll
try it."

"Wait a minute," urged the Wizard.  "Before any more of us make this
desperate leap into the beyond, we must decide whether all will go or
if some of us will remain behind."

"Do you s'pose it hurt them much to bump against those mountains?"
asked Trot.

"I don't s'pose anything could hurt Scraps or the Woozy," said Dorothy,
"and nothing can hurt ME, because I wear the Magic Belt.  So as I'm
anxious to find Ozma, I mean to swing myself across too."

"I'll take my chances," decided Button-Bright.

"I'm sure it will hurt dreadfully, and I'm afraid to do it," said the
Lion, who was already trembling, "but I shall do it if Dorothy does."

"Well, that will leave Betsy and the Mule and Trot," said the Wizard,
"for of course I shall go that I may look after Dorothy.  Do you two
girls think you can find your way back home again?" he asked,
addressing Trot and Betsy.

"I'm not afraid.  Not much, that is," said Trot.  "It looks risky, I
know, but I'm sure I can stand it if the others can."

"If it wasn't for leaving Hank," began Betsy in a hesitating voice.

But the Mule interrupted her by saying, "Go ahead if you want to, and
I'll come after you.  A mule is as brave as a lion any day."

"Braver," said the Lion, "for I'm a coward, friend Hank, and you are
not.  But of course the Sawhorse--"

"Oh, nothing ever hurts ME," asserted the Sawhorse calmly.  "There's
never been any question about my going.  I can't take the Red Wagon,
though."

"No, we must leave the wagon," said the wizard, "and also we must leave
our food and blankets, I fear.  But if we can defy these Merry-Go-Round
Mountains to stop us, we won't mind the sacrifice of some of our
comforts."

"No one knows where we're going to land!" remarked the Lion in a voice
that sounded as if he were going to cry.

"We may not land at all," replied Hank, "but the best way to find out
what will happen to us is to swing across as Scraps and the Woozy have
done."

"I think I shall go last," said the Wizard, "so who wants to go first?"

"I'll go," decided Dorothy.

"No, it's my turn first," said Button-Bright.   "Watch me!"

Even as he spoke, the boy seized the strap, and after making a run
swung himself across the gulf.  Away he went, bumping from hill to hill
until he disappeared.  They listened intently, but the boy uttered no
cry until he had been gone some moments, when they heard a faint
"Hullo-a!" as if called from a great distance.  The sound gave them
courage, however, and Dorothy picked up Toto and held him fast under
one arm while with the other hand she seized the strap and bravely
followed after Button-Bright.

When she struck the first whirling mountain, she fell upon it quite
softly, but before she had time to think, she flew through the air and
lit with a jar on the side of the next mountain.  Again she flew and
alighted, and again and still again, until after five successive bumps
she fell sprawling upon a green meadow and was so dazed and bewildered
by her bumpy journey across the Merry-Go-Round Mountains that she lay
quite still for a time to collect her thoughts.  Toto had escaped from
her arms just as she fell, and he now sat beside her panting with
excitement.  Then Dorothy realized that someone was helping her to her
feet, and here was Button-Bright on one side of her and Scraps on the
other, both seeming to be unhurt.  The next object her eyes fell upon
was the Woozy, squatting upon his square back end and looking at her
reflectively, while Toto barked joyously to find his mistress unhurt
after her whirlwind trip.

"Good!" said the Woozy.  "Here's another and a dog, both safe and
sound.  But my word, Dorothy, you flew some!  If you could have seen
yourself, you'd have been absolutely astonished."

"They say 'Time flies,'" laughed Button-Bright, "but Time never made a
quicker journey than that."

Just then, as Dorothy turned around to look at the whirling mountains,
she was in time to see tiny Trot come flying from the nearest hill to
fall upon the soft grass not a yard away from where she stood.  Trot
was so dizzy she couldn't stand at first, but she wasn't at all hurt,
and presently Betsy came flying to them and would have bumped into the
others had they not retreated in time to avoid her.  Then, in quick
succession, came the Lion, Hank and the Sawhorse, bounding from
mountain to mountain to fall safely upon the greensward.  Only the
Wizard was now left behind, and they waited so long for him that
Dorothy began to be worried.

But suddenly he came flying from the nearest mountain and tumbled heels
over head beside them.  Then they saw that he had wound two of their
blankets around his body to keep the bumps from hurting him and had
fastened the blankets with some of the spare straps from the harness of
the Sawhorse.




CHAPTER 8

THE MYSTERIOUS CITY


There they sat upon the grass, their heads still swimming from their
dizzy flights, and looked at one another in silent bewilderment.  But
presently, when assured that no one was injured, they grew more calm
and collected, and the Lion said with a sigh of relief, "Who would have
thought those Merry-Go-Round Mountains were made of rubber?"

"Are they really rubber?" asked Trot.

"They must be," replied the Lion, "for otherwise we would not have
bounded so swiftly from one to another without getting hurt."

"That is all guesswork," declared the Wizard, unwinding the blankets
from his body, "for none of us stayed long enough on the mountains to
discover what they are made of.  But where are we?"

"That's guesswork," said Scraps.  "The shepherd said the Thistle-Eaters
live this side of the mountains and are waited on by giants."

"Oh no," said Dorothy, "it's the Herkus who have giant slaves, and the
Thistle-Eaters hitch dragons to their chariots."

"How could they do that?" asked the Woozy.  "Dragons have long tails,
which would get in the way of the chariot wheels."

"And if the Herkus have conquered the giants," said Trot, "they must be
at least twice the size of giants.  P'raps the Herkus are the biggest
people in all the world!"

"Perhaps they are," assented the Wizard in a thoughtful tone of voice.
"And perhaps the shepherd didn't know what he was talking about.  Let
us travel on toward the west and discover for ourselves what the people
of this country are like."

It seemed a pleasant enough country, and it was quite still and
peaceful when they turned their eyes away from the silently whirling
mountains.  There were trees here and there and green bushes, while
throughout the thick grass were scattered brilliantly colored flowers.
About a mile away was a low hill that hid from them all the country
beyond it, so they realized they could not tell much about the country
until they had crossed the hill.  The Red Wagon having been left
behind, it was now necessary to make other arrangements for traveling.
The Lion told Dorothy she could ride upon his back as she had often
done before, and the Woozy said he could easily carry both Trot and the
Patchwork Girl.  Betsy still had her mule, Hank, and Button-Bright and
the Wizard could sit together upon the long, thin back of the Sawhorse,
but they took care to soften their seat with a pad of blankets before
they started.  Thus mounted, the adventurers started for the hill,
which was reached after a brief journey.

As they mounted the crest and gazed beyond the hill, they discovered
not far away a walled city, from the towers and spires of which gay
banners were flying.  It was not a very big city, indeed, but its walls
were very high and thick, and it appeared that the people who lived
there must have feared attack by a powerful enemy, else they would not
have surrounded their dwellings with so strong a barrier. There was no
path leading from the mountains to the city, and this proved that the
people seldom or never visited the whirling hills, but our friends
found the grass soft and agreeable to travel over, and with the city
before them they could not well lose their way.  When they drew nearer
to the walls, the breeze carried to their ears the sound of music--dim
at first, but growing louder as they advanced.

"That doesn't seem like a very terr'ble place," remarked Dorothy.

"Well, it LOOKS all right," replied Trot from her seat on the Woozy,
"but looks can't always be trusted."

"MY looks can," said Scraps.  "I LOOK patchwork, and I AM patchwork,
and no one but a blind owl could ever doubt that I'm the Patchwork
Girl."  Saying which, she turned a somersault off the Woozy and,
alighting on her feet, began wildly dancing about.

"Are owls ever blind?" asked Trot.

"Always, in the daytime," said Button-Bright.   "But Scraps can see
with her button eyes both day and night.  Isn't it queer?"

"It's queer that buttons can see at all," answered Trot.  "But good
gracious!  What's become of the city?"

"I was going to ask that myself," said Dorothy. "It's gone!"

"It's gone!"

The animals came to a sudden halt, for the city had really disappeared,
walls and all, and before them lay the clear, unbroken sweep of the
country.  "Dear me!" exclaimed the Wizard.  "This is rather
disagreeable.  It is annoying to travel almost to a place and then find
it is not there."

"Where can it be, then?" asked Dorothy.  "It cert'nly was there a
minute ago."

"I can hear the music yet," declared Button-Bright, and when they all
listened, the strains of music could plainly be heard.

"Oh!  There's the city over at the left," called Scraps, and turning
their eyes, they saw the walls and towers and fluttering banners far to
the left of them.

"We must have lost our way," suggested Dorothy.

"Nonsense," said the Lion.

"I, and all the other animals, have been tramping straight toward the
city ever since we first saw it."

"Then how does it happen--"

"Never mind," interrupted the Wizard, "we are no farther from it than
we were before.  It is in a different direction, that's all, so let us
hurry and get there before it again escapes us."

So on they went directly toward the city, which seemed only a couple of
miles distant.  But when they had traveled less than a mile, it
suddenly disappeared again.  Once more they paused, somewhat
discouraged, but in a moment the button eyes of Scraps again discovered
the city, only this time it was just behind them in the direction from
which they had come.  "Goodness gracious!" cried Dorothy.  "There's
surely something wrong with that city.  Do you s'pose it's on wheels,
Wizard?"

"It may not be a city at all," he replied, looking toward it with a
speculative glance.

"What COULD it be, then?"

"Just an illusion."

"What's that?" asked Trot.

"Something you think you see and don't see."

"I can't believe that," said Button-Bright.  "If we only saw it, we
might be mistaken, but if we can see it and hear it, too, it must be
there."

"Where?" asked the Patchwork Girl.

"Somewhere near us," he insisted.

"We will have to go back, I suppose," said the Woozy with a sigh.

So back they turned and headed for the walled city until it disappeared
again, only to reappear at the right of them.  They were constantly
getting nearer to it, however, so they kept their faces turned toward
it as it flitted here and there to all points of the compass.
Presently the Lion, who was leading the procession, halted abruptly and
cried out, "Ouch!"

"What's the matter?" asked Dorothy.

"Ouch--Ouch!" repeated the Lion, and leaped backward so suddenly that
Dorothy nearly tumbled from his back. At the same time Hank the Mule
yelled "Ouch!"

"Ouch!  Ouch!" repeated the Lion and leaped backward so suddenly that
Dorothy nearly tumbled from his back.  At the same time, Hank the Mule
yelled "Ouch!" almost as loudly as the Lion had done, and he also
pranced backward a few paces.

"It's the thistles," said Betsy.  "They prick their legs."

Hearing this, all looked down, and sure enough the ground was thick
with thistles, which covered the plain from the point where they stood
way up to the walls of the mysterious city.  No pathways through them
could be seen at all; here the soft grass ended and the growth of
thistles began.  "They're the prickliest thistles I ever felt,"
grumbled the Lion.  "My legs smart yet from their stings, though I
jumped out of them as quickly as I could."

"Here is a new difficulty," remarked the Wizard in a grieved tone. "The
city has stopped hopping around, it is true, but how are we to get to
it over this mass of prickers?"

"They can't hurt ME," said the thick-skinned Woozy, advancing
fearlessly and trampling among the thistles.

"Nor me," said the Wooden Sawhorse.

"But the Lion and the Mule cannot stand the prickers," asserted
Dorothy, "and we can't leave them behind."

"Must we all go back?" asked Trot.

"Course not!" replied Button-Bright scornfully. "Always when there's
trouble, there's a way out of it if you can find it."

"I wish the Scarecrow was here," said Scraps, standing on her head on
the Woozy's square back.  "His splendid brains would soon show us how
to conquer this field of thistles."

"What's the matter with YOUR brains?" asked the boy.

"Nothing," she said, making a flip-flop into the thistles and dancing
among them without feeling their sharp points.  "I could tell you in
half a minute how to get over the thistles if I wanted to."

"Tell us, Scraps!" begged Dorothy.

"I don't want to wear my brains out with overwork," replied the
Patchwork Girl.

"Don't you love Ozma?  And don't you want to find her?" asked Betsy
reproachfully.

"Yes indeed," said Scraps, walking on her hands as an acrobat does at
the circus.

"Well, we can't find Ozma unless we get past these thistles," declared
Dorothy.

Scraps danced around them two or three times without reply.  Then she
said, "Don't look at me, you stupid folks.  Look at those blankets."

The Wizard's face brightened at once.

"Why didn't we think of those blankets before?"

"Because you haven't magic brains," laughed Scraps.   "Such brains as
you have are of the common sort that grow in your heads, like weeds in
a garden.  I'm sorry for you people who have to be born in order to be
alive."

But the Wizard was not listening to her.  He quickly removed the
blankets from the back of the Sawhorse and spread one of them upon the
thistles, just next the grass.  The thick cloth rendered the prickers
harmless, so the Wizard walked over this first blanket and spread the
second one farther on, in the direction of the phantom city.  "These
blankets," said he, "are for the Lion and the Mule to walk upon.  The
Sawhorse and the Woozy can walk on the thistles."

So the Lion and the Mule walked over the first blanket and stood upon
the second one until the Wizard had picked up the one they had passed
over and spread it in front of them, when they advanced to that one and
waited while the one behind them was again spread in front.  "This is
slow work," said the Wizard, "but it will get us to the city after a
while."

"The city is a good half mile away yet," announced Button-Bright.

"And this is awful hard work for the Wizard," added Trot.

"Why couldn't the Lion ride on the Woozy's back?" asked Dorothy. "It's
a big, flat back, and the Woozy's mighty strong. Perhaps the Lion
wouldn't fall off."

"You may try it if you like," said the Woozy to the Lion.  "I can take
you to the city in a jiffy and then come back for Hank."

"I'm--I'm afraid," said the Cowardly Lion.  He was twice as big as the
Woozy.

"Try it," pleaded Dorothy.

"And take a tumble among the thistles?" asked the Lion reproachfully.

But when the Woozy came close to him, the big beast suddenly bounded
upon its back and managed to balance himself there, although forced to
hold his four legs so close together that he was in danger of toppling
over.  The great weight of the monster Lion did not seem to affect the
Woozy, who called to his rider, "Hold on tight!" and ran swiftly over
the thistles toward the city.

The others stood on the blanket and watched the strange sight
anxiously.  Of course, the Lion couldn't "hold on tight" because there
was nothing to hold to, and he swayed from side to side as if likely to
fall off any moment.  Still, he managed to stick to the Woozy's back
until they were close to the walls of the city, when he leaped to the
ground.  Next moment the Woozy came dashing back at full speed.

"There's a little strip of ground next the wall where there are no
thistles," he told them when he had reached the adventurers once more.
"Now then, friend Hank, see if you can ride as well as the Lion did."

"Take the others first," proposed the Mule.  So the Sawhorse and the
Woozy made a couple of trips over the thistles to the city walls and
carried all the people in safety, Dorothy holding little Toto in her
arms.  The travelers then sat in a group on a little hillock just
outside the wall and looked at the great blocks of gray stone and
waited for the Woozy to bring Hank to them.  The Mule was very awkward,
and his legs trembled so badly that more than once they thought he
would tumble off, but finally he reached them in safety, and the entire
party was now reunited.  More than that, they had reached the city that
had eluded them for so long and in so strange a manner.

"The gates must be around the other side," said the Wizard.  "Let us
follow the curve of the wall until we reach an opening in it."

"Which way?" asked Dorothy.

"We must guess that," he replied.  "Suppose we go to the left.  One
direction is as good as another."  They formed in marching order and
went around the city wall to the left.  It wasn't a big city, as I have
said, but to go way around it outside the high wall was quite a walk,
as they became aware.  But around it our adventurers went without
finding any sign of a gateway or other opening.  When they had returned
to the little mound from which they had started, they dismounted from
the animals and again seated themselves on the grassy mound.

"It's mighty queer, isn't it?" asked Button-Bright.

"There must be SOME way for the people to get out and in," declared
Dorothy.  "Do you s'pose they have flying machines, Wizard?"

"No," he replied, "for in that case they would be flying all over the
Land of Oz, and we know they have not done that.  Flying machines are
unknown here.  I think it more likely that the people use ladders to
get over the walls."

"It would be an awful climb over that high stone wall," said Betsy.

"Stone, is it?" Scraps, who was again dancing wildly around, for she
never tired and could never keep still for long.

"Course it's stone," answered Betsy scornfully.  "Can't you see?"

"Yes," said Scraps, going closer.  "I can SEE the wall, but I can't
FEEL it."  And then, with her arms outstretched, she did a very queer
thing.  She walked right into the wall and disappeared.

"For goodness sake!" Dorothy, amazed, as indeed they all were.




CHAPTER 9

THE HIGH COCO-LORUM OF THI


And now the Patchwork Girl came dancing out of the wall again.

"Come on!" she called.   "It isn't there.  There isn't any wall at all."

"What?  No wall?" exclaimed the Wizard.

"Nothing like it," said Scraps.  "It's a make-believe.  You see it, but
it isn't.  Come on into the city; we've been wasting our time."

With this, she danced into the wall again and once more disappeared.
Button-Bright, who was rather venture-some, dashed away after her and
also became invisible to them.  The others followed more cautiously,
stretching out their hands to feel the wall and finding, to their
astonishment, that they could feel nothing because nothing opposed
them.  They walked on a few steps and found themselves in the streets
of a very beautiful city.  Behind them they again saw the wall, grim
and forbidding as ever, but now they knew it was merely an illusion
prepared to keep strangers from entering the city.

But the wall was soon forgotten, for in front of them were a number of
quaint people who stared at them in amazement as if wondering where
they had come from.  Our friends forgot their good manners for a time
and returned the stares with interest, for so remarkable a people had
never before been discovered in all the remarkable Land of Oz.

Their heads were shaped like diamonds, and their bodies like hearts.
All the hair they had was a little bunch at the tip top of their
diamond-shaped heads, and their eyes were very large and round, and
their noses and mouths very small.  Their clothing was tight fitting
and of brilliant colors, being handsomely embroidered in quaint designs
with gold or silver threads; but on their feet they wore sandals with
no stockings whatever.  The expression of their faces was pleasant
enough, although they now showed surprise at the appearance of
strangers so unlike themselves, and our friends thought they seemed
quite harmless.

"I beg your pardon," said the Wizard, speaking for his party, "for
intruding upon you uninvited, but we are traveling on important
business and find it necessary to visit your city.  Will you kindly
tell us by what name your city is called?"

They looked at one another uncertainly, each expecting some other to
answer.  Finally, a short one whose heart-shaped body was very broad
replied, "We have no occasion to call our city anything.  It is where
we live, that is all."

"But by what name do others call your city?" asked the Wizard.

"We know of no others except yourselves," said the man.  And then he
inquired, "Were you born with those queer forms you have, or has some
cruel magician transformed you to them from your natural shapes?"

"These are our natural shapes," declared the Wizard, "and we consider
them very good shapes, too."

The group of inhabitants was constantly being enlarged by others who
joined it.  All were evidently startled and uneasy at the arrival of
strangers.

"Have you a King?" asked Dorothy, who knew it was better to speak with
someone in authority.

But the man shook his diamond-like head.  "What is a King?" he asked.

"Isn't there anyone who rules over you?" inquired the Wizard.

"No," was the reply, "each of us rules himself, or at least tries to do
so.  It is not an easy thing to do, as you probably know."

The Wizard reflected.

"If you have disputes among you," said he after a little thought, "who
settles them?"

"The High Coco-Lorum," they answered in a chorus.

"And who is he?"

"The judge who enforces the laws," said the man who had first spoken.

"Then he is the principal person here?" continued the Wizard.

"Well, I would not say that," returned the man in a puzzled way.  "The
High Coco-Lorum is a public servant.  However, he represents the laws,
which we must all obey."

"I think," said the Wizard, "we ought to see your High Coco-Lorum and
talk with him.  Our mission here requires us to consult one high in
authority, and the High Coco-Lorum ought to be high, whatever else he
is."

The inhabitants seemed to consider this proposition reasonable, for
they nodded their diamond-shaped heads in approval.  So the broad one
who had been their spokesman said, "Follow me," and turning led the way
along one of the streets.  The entire party followed him, the natives
falling in behind.  The dwellings they passed were quite nicely planned
and seemed comfortable and convenient.  After leading them a few
blocks, their conductor stopped before a house which was neither better
nor worse than the others.  The doorway was shaped to admit the
strangely formed bodies of these people, being narrow at the top, broad
in the middle and tapering at the bottom.  The windows were made in
much the same way, giving the house a most peculiar appearance.  When
their guide opened the gate, a music box concealed in the gatepost
began to play, and the sound attracted the attention of the High
Coco-Lorum, who appeared at an open window and inquired, "What has
happened now?"

But in the same moment his eyes fell upon the strangers and he hastened
to open the door and admit them--all but the animals, which were left
outside with the throng of natives that had now gathered. For a small
city there seemed to be a large number of inhabitants, but they did not
try to enter the house and contented themselves with staring curiously
at the strange animals.  Toto followed Dorothy.

Our friends entered a large room at the front of the house, where the
High Coco-Lorum asked them to be seated.  "I hope your mission here is
a peaceful one," he said, looking a little worried, "for the Thists are
not very good fighters and object to being conquered."

"Are your people called Thists?" asked Dorothy.

"Yes.   I thought you knew that.  And we call our city Thi."

"Oh!"

"We are Thists because we eat thistles, you know," continued the High
Coco-Lorum.

"Do you really eat those prickly things?" inquired Button-Bright
wonderingly.

"Why not?" replied the other.  "The sharp points of the thistles cannot
hurt us, because all our insides are gold-lined."

"Gold-lined!"

"To be sure.  Our throats and stomachs are lined with solid gold, and
we find the thistles nourishing and good to eat.  As a matter of fact,
there is nothing else in our country that is fit for food.  All around
the City of Thi grow countless thistles, and all we need do is to go
and gather them.  If we wanted anything else to eat, we would have to
plant it, and grow it, and harvest it, and that would be a lot of
trouble and make us work, which is an occupation we detest."

"But tell me, please," said the Wizard, "how does it happen that your
city jumps around so, from one part of the country to another?"

"The city doesn't jump.  It doesn't move at all," declared the High
Coco-Lorum.  "However, I will admit that the land that surrounds it has
a trick of turning this way or that, and so if one is standing upon the
plain and facing north, he is likely to find himself suddenly facing
west or east or south.  But once you reach the thistle fields, you are
on solid ground."

"Ah, I begin to understand," said the Wizard, nodding his head.  "But I
have another question to ask: How does it happen that the Thists have
no King to rule over them?"

"Hush!" whispered the High Coco-Lorum, looking uneasily around to make
sure they were not overheard.  "In reality, I am the King, but the
people don't know it.  They think they rule themselves, but the fact is
I have everything my own way.  No one else knows anything about our
laws, and so I make the laws to suit myself.  If any oppose me or
question my acts, I tell them it's the law and that settles it.  If I
called myself King, however, and wore a crown and lived in royal style,
the people would not like me and might do me harm.  As the High
Coco-Lorum of Thi, I am considered a very agreeable person."

"It seems a very clever arrangement," said the Wizard.  "And now, as
you are the principal person in Thi, I beg you to tell us if the Royal
Ozma is a captive in your city."

"No," answered the diamond-headed man.  "We have no captives.  No
strangers but yourselves are here, and we have never before heard of
the Royal Ozma."

"She rules over all of Oz," said Dorothy, "and so she rules your city
and you, because you are in the Winkie Country, which is a part of the
Land of Oz."

"It may be," returned the High Coco-Lorum, "for we do not study
geography and have never inquired whether we live in the Land of Oz or
not.  And any Ruler who rules us from a distance and unknown to us is
welcome to the job.  But what has happened to your Royal Ozma?"

"Someone has stolen her," said the Wizard.  "Do you happen to have any
talented magician among your people, one who is especially clever, you
know?"

"No, none especially clever.  We do some magic, of course, but it is
all of the ordinary kind.  I do not think any of us has yet aspired to
stealing Rulers, either by magic or otherwise."

"Then we've come a long way for nothing!" exclaimed Trot regretfully.

"But we are going farther than this," asserted the Patchwork Girl,
bending her stuffed body backward until her yarn hair touched the floor
and then walking around on her hands with her feet in the air.

The High Coco-Lorum watched Scraps admiringly.

"You may go farther on, of course," said he, "but I advise you not to.
The Herkus live back of us, beyond the thistles and the twisting lands,
and they are not very nice people to meet, I assure you."

"Are they giants?" asked Betsy.

"They are worse than that," was the reply. "They have giants for their
slaves and they are so much stronger than giants that the poor slaves
dare not rebel for fear of being torn to pieces."

"How do you know?" asked Scraps.

"Everyone says so," answered the High Coco-Lorum.

"Have you seen the Herkus yourself?" inquired Dorothy.

"No, but what everyone says must be true, otherwise what would be the
use of their saying it?"

"We were told before we got here that you people hitch dragons to your
chariots," said the little girl.

"So we do," declared the High Coco-Lorum. "And that reminds me that I
ought to entertain you as strangers and my guests by taking you for a
ride around our splendid City of Thi."  He touched a button, and a band
began to play.  At least, they heard the music of a band, but couldn't
tell where it came from.  "That tune is the order to my charioteer to
bring around my dragon-chariot," said the High Coco-Lorum.  "Every time
I give an order, it is in music, which is a much more pleasant way to
address servants than in cold, stern words."

"Does this dragon of yours bite?" asked Button-Bright.

"Mercy no!  Do you think I'd risk the safety of my innocent people by
using a biting dragon to draw my chariot?  I'm proud to say that my
dragon is harmless, unless his steering gear breaks, and he was
manufactured at the famous dragon factory in this City of Thi.  Here he
comes, and you may examine him for yourselves."

They heard a low rumble and a shrill squeaking sound, and going out to
the front of the house, they saw coming around the corner a car drawn
by a gorgeous jeweled dragon, which moved its head to right and left
and flashed its eyes like headlights of an automobile and uttered a
growling noise as it slowly moved toward them.  When it stopped before
the High Coco-Lorum's house, Toto barked sharply at the sprawling
beast, but even tiny Trot could see that the dragon was not alive. Its
scales were of gold, and each one was set with sparkling jewels, while
it walked in such a stiff, regular manner that it could be nothing else
than a machine.  The chariot that trailed behind it was likewise of
gold and jewels, and when they entered it, they found there were no
seats.  Everyone was supposed to stand up while riding. The charioteer
was a little, diamond-headed fellow who straddled the neck of the
dragon and moved the levers that made it go.

"This," said the High Coco-Lorum pompously, "is a wonderful invention.
We are all very proud of our auto-dragons, many of which are in use by
our wealthy inhabitants.  Start the thing going, charioteer!"

The charioteer did not move.

"You forgot to order him in music," suggested Dorothy.

"Ah, so I did."

He touched a button and a music box in the dragon's head began to play
a tune.  At once the little charioteer pulled over a lever, and the
dragon began to move, very slowly and groaning dismally as it drew the
clumsy chariot after it.  Toto trotted between the wheels.  The
Sawhorse, the Mule, the Lion and the Woozy followed after and had no
trouble in keeping up with the machine.  Indeed, they had to go slow to
keep from running into it.  When the wheels turned, another music box
concealed somewhere under the chariot played a lively march tune which
was in striking contrast with the dragging movement of the strange
vehicle, and Button-Bright decided that the music he had heard when
they first sighted this city was nothing else than a chariot plodding
its weary way through the streets.

All the travelers from the Emerald City thought this ride the most
uninteresting and dreary they had ever experienced, but the High
Coco-Lorum seemed to think it was grand.  He pointed out the different
buildings and parks and fountains in much the same way that the
conductor does on an American "sightseeing wagon" does, and being
guests they were obliged to submit to the ordeal.  But they became a
little worried when their host told them he had ordered a banquet
prepared for them in the City Hall.

"What are we going to eat?" asked Button-Bright suspiciously.

"Thistles," was the reply.  "Fine, fresh thistles, gathered this very
day."

Scraps laughed, for she never ate anything, but Dorothy said in a
protesting voice, "OUR insides are not lined with gold, you know."

"How sad!" exclaimed the High Coco-Lorum, and then he added as an
afterthought, "but we can have the thistles boiled, if you prefer."

"I'm 'fraid they wouldn't taste good even then," said little Trot.
"Haven't you anything else to eat?"

The High Coco-Lorum shook his diamond-shaped head.

"Nothing that I know of," said he.  "But why should we have anything
else when we have so many thistles?  However, if you can't eat what we
eat, don't eat anything.  We shall not be offended, and the banquet
will be just as merry and delightful."

Knowing his companions were all hungry, the Wizard said, "I trust you
will excuse us from the banquet, sir, which will be merry enough
without us, although it is given in our honor.  For, as Ozma is not in
your city, we must leave here at once and seek her elsewhere."

"Sure we must!" Dorothy, and she whispered to Betsy and Trot, "I'd
rather starve somewhere else than in this city, and who knows, we may
run across somebody who eats reg'lar food and will give us some."

So when the ride was finished, in spite of the protests of the High
Coco-Lorum, they insisted on continuing their journey.  "It will soon
be dark," he objected.

"We don't mind the darkness," replied the Wizard.

"Some wandering Herku may get you."

"Do you think the Herkus would hurt us?" asked Dorothy.

"I cannot say, not having had the honor of their acquaintance.  But
they are said to be so strong that if they had any other place to stand
upon they could lift the world."

"All of them together?" asked Button-Bright wonderingly.

"Any one of them could do it," said the High Coco-Lorum.

"Have you heard of any magicians being among them?" asked the Wizard,
knowing that only a magician could have stolen Ozma in the way she had
been stolen.

"I am told it is quite a magical country," declared the High
Coco-Lorum, "and magic is usually performed by magicians.  But I have
never heard that they have any invention or sorcery to equal our
wonderful auto-dragons."

They thanked him for his courtesy, and mounting their own animals rode
to the farther side of the city and right through the Wall of Illusion
out into the open country.  "I'm glad we got away so easily," said
Betsy.  "I didn't like those queer-shaped people."

"Nor did I," agreed Dorothy. "It seems dreadful to be lined with sheets
of pure gold and have nothing to eat but thistles."

"They seemed happy and contented, though," remarked the Wizard, "and
those who are contented have nothing to regret and nothing more to wish
for."




CHAPTER 10

TOTO LOSES SOMETHING


For a while the travelers were constantly losing their direction, for
beyond the thistle fields they again found themselves upon the
turning-lands, which swung them around one way and then another.  But
by keeping the City of Thi constantly behind them, the adventurers
finally passed the treacherous turning-lands and came upon a stony
country where no grass grew at all.  There were plenty of bushes,
however, and although it was now almost dark, the girls discovered some
delicious yellow berries growing upon the bushes, one taste of which
set them all to picking as many as they could find.  The berries
relieved their pangs of hunger for a time, and as it now became too
dark to see anything, they camped where they were.

The three girls lay down upon one of the blankets--all in a row--and
the Wizard covered them with the other blanket and tucked them in.
Button-Bright crawled under the shelter of some bushes and was asleep
in half a minute.  The Wizard sat down with his back to a big stone and
looked at the stars in the sky and thought gravely upon the dangerous
adventure they had undertaken, wondering if they would ever be able to
find their beloved Ozma again.  The animals lay in a group by
themselves, a little distance from the others.

"I've lost my growl!" said Toto, who had been very silent and sober all
that day.  "What do you suppose has become of it?"

"If you had asked me to keep track of your growl, I might be able to
tell you," remarked the Lion sleepily.  "But frankly, Toto, I supposed
you were taking care of it yourself."

"It's an awful thing to lose one's growl," said Toto, wagging his tail
disconsolately.  "What if you lost your roar, Lion?  Wouldn't you feel
terrible?"

"My roar," replied the Lion, "is the fiercest thing about me.  I depend
on it to frighten my enemies so badly that they won't dare to fight me."

"Once," said the Mule, "I lost my bray so that I couldn't call to Betsy
to let her know I was hungry.  That was before I could talk, you know,
for I had not yet come into the Land of Oz, and I found it was
certainly very uncomfortable not to be able to make a noise."

"You make enough noise now," declared Toto.  "But none of you have
answered my question: Where is my growl?"

"You may search ME," said the Woozy.  "I don't care for such things,
myself."

"You snore terribly," asserted Toto.

"It may be," said the Woozy.  "What one does when asleep one is not
accountable for.  I wish you would wake me up sometime when I'm snoring
and let me hear the sound.  Then I can judge whether it is terrible or
delightful."

"It isn't pleasant, I assure you," said the Lion, yawning.

"To me it seems wholly unnecessary," declared Hank the Mule.

"You ought to break yourself of the habit," said the Sawhorse.  "You
never hear me snore, because I never sleep.  I don't even whinny as
those puffy meat horses do.  I wish that whoever stole Toto's growl had
taken the Mule's bray and the Lion's roar and the Woozy's snore at the
same time."

"Do you think, then, that my growl was stolen?"

"You have never lost it before, have you?" inquired inquired the
Sawhorse.

"Only once, when I had a sore throat from barking too long at the moon."

"Is your throat sore now?" asked the Woozy.

"No," replied the dog.

"I can't understand," said Hank, "why dogs bark at the moon.  They
can't scare the moon, and the moon doesn't pay any attention to the
bark.  So why do dogs do it?"

"Were you ever a dog?" asked Toto.

"No indeed," replied Hank.  "I am thankful to say I was created a
mule--the most beautiful of all beasts--and have always remained one."

The Woozy sat upon his square haunches to examine Hank with care.
"Beauty," he said, "must be a matter of taste.  I don't say your
judgment is bad, friend Hank, or that you are so vulgar as to be
conceited.  But if you admire big, waggy ears and a tail like a
paintbrush and hoofs big enough for an elephant and a long neck and a
body so skinny that one can count the ribs with one eye shut--if that's
your idea of beauty, Hank, then either you or I must be much mistaken."

"You're full of edges," sneered the Mule. "If I were square as you are,
I suppose you'd think me lovely."

"Outwardly, dear Hank, I would," replied the Woozy. "But to be really
lovely, one must be beautiful without and within."

The Mule couldn't deny this statement, so he gave a disgusted grunt and
rolled over so that his back was toward the Woozy.  But the Lion,
regarding the two calmly with his great, yellow eyes, said to the dog,
"My dear Toto, our friends have taught us a lesson in humility.  If the
Woozy and the Mule are indeed beautiful creatures as they seem to
think, you and I must be decidedly ugly."

"Not to ourselves," protested Toto, who was a shrewd little dog.  "You
and I, Lion, are fine specimens of our own races.  I am a fine dog, and
you are a fine lion.  Only in point of comparison, one with another,
can we be properly judged, so I will leave it to the poor old Sawhorse
to decide which is the most beautiful animal among us all. The Sawhorse
is wood, so he won't be prejudiced and will speak the truth."

"I surely will," responded the Sawhorse, wagging his ears, which were
chips set in his wooden head.  "Are you all agreed to accept my
judgment?"

"We are!" they declared, each one hopeful.

"Then," said the Sawhorse, "I must point out to you the fact that you
are all meat creatures, who tire unless they sleep and starve unless
they eat and suffer from thirst unless they drink.  Such animals must
be very imperfect, and imperfect creatures cannot be beautiful.  Now, I
am made of wood."

"You surely have a wooden head," said the Mule.

"Yes, and a wooden body and wooden legs, which are as swift as the wind
and as tireless.  I've heard Dorothy say that 'handsome is as handsome
does,' and I surely perform my duties in a handsome manner. Therefore,
if you wish my honest judgment, I will confess that among us all I am
the most beautiful."

The Mule snorted, and the Woozy laughed; Toto had lost his growl and
could only look scornfully at the Sawhorse, who stood in his place
unmoved.  But the Lion stretched himself and yawned, saying quietly,
"Were we all like the Sawhorse, we would all be Sawhorses, which would
be too many of the kind.  Were we all like Hank, we would be a herd of
mules; if like Toto, we would be a pack of dogs; should we all become
the shape of the Woozy, he would no longer be remarkable for his
unusual appearance.  Finally, were you all like me, I would consider
you so common that I would not care to associate with you.  To be
individual, my friends, to be different from others, is the only way to
become distinguished from the common herd.  Let us be glad, therefore,
that we differ from one another in form and in disposition. Variety is
the spice of life, and we are various enough to enjoy one another's
society; so let us be content."

"There is some truth in that speech," remarked Toto reflectively. "But
how about my lost growl?"

"The growl is of importance only to you," responded the Lion, "so it is
your business to worry over the loss, not ours.  If you love us, do not
afflict your burdens on us; be unhappy all by yourself."

"If the same person stole my growl who stole Ozma," said the little
dog, "I hope we shall find him very soon and punish him as he deserves.
He must be the most cruel person in all the world, for to prevent a dog
from growling when it is his nature to growl is just as wicked, in my
opinion, as stealing all the magic in Oz."




CHAPTER 11

BUTTON-BRIGHT LOSES HIMSELF


The Patchwork Girl, who never slept and who could see very well in the
dark, had wandered among the rocks and bushes all night long, with the
result that she was able to tell some good news the next morning. "Over
the crest of the hill before us," she said, "is a big grove of trees of
many kinds on which all sorts of fruits grow.  If you will go there,
you will find a nice breakfast awaiting you."  This made them eager to
start, so as soon as the blankets were folded and strapped to the back
of the Sawhorse, they all took their places on the animals and set out
for the big grove Scraps had told them of.

As soon as they got over the brow of the hill, they discovered it to be
a really immense orchard, extending for miles to the right and left of
them.  As their way led straight through the trees, they hurried
forward as fast as possible.  The first trees they came to bore
quinces, which they did not like.  Then there were rows of citron trees
and then crab apples and afterward limes and lemons.  But beyond these
they found a grove of big, golden oranges, juicy and sweet, and the
fruit hung low on the branches so they could pluck it easily.

They helped themselves freely and all ate oranges as they continued on
their way.  Then, a little farther along, they came to some trees
bearing fine, red apples, which they also feasted on, and the Wizard
stopped here long enough to tie a lot of the apples in one end of a
blanket.

"We do not know what will happen to us after we leave this delightful
orchard," he said, "so I think it wise to carry a supply of apples with
us.  We can't starve as long as we have apples, you know."

Scraps wasn't riding the Woozy just now.  She loved to climb the trees
and swing herself by the branches from one tree to another.  Some of
the choicest fruit was gathered by the Patchwork Girl from the very
highest limbs and tossed down to the others.  Suddenly, Trot asked,
"Where's Button-Bright?" and when the others looked for him, they found
the boy had disappeared.

"Dear me!" cried Dorothy.  "I guess he's lost again, and that will mean
our waiting here until we can find him."

"It's a good place to wait," suggested Betsy, who had found a plum tree
and was eating some of its fruit.

"How can you wait here and find Button-Bright at one and the same
time?" inquired the Patchwork Girl, hanging by her toes on a limb just
over the heads of the three mortal girls.

"Perhaps he'll come back here," answered Dorothy.

"If he tries that, he'll prob'ly lose his way," said Trot.  "I've known
him to do that lots of times.  It's losing his way that gets him lost."

"Very true," said the Wizard.  "So all the rest of you must stay here
while I go look for the boy."

"Won't YOU get lost, too?" asked Betsy.

"I hope not, my dear."

"Let ME go," said Scraps, dropping lightly to the ground.  "I can't get
lost, and I'm more likely to find Button-Bright than any of you."
Without waiting for permission, she darted away through the trees and
soon disappeared from their view.

"Dorothy," said Toto, squatting beside his little mistress, "I've lost
my growl."

"How did that happen?" she asked.

"I don't know," replied Toto.  "Yesterday morning the Woozy nearly
stepped on me, and I tried to growl at him and found I couldn't growl a
bit."

"Can you bark?" inquired Dorothy.

"Oh, yes indeed."

"Then never mind the growl," said she.

"But what will I do when I get home to the Glass Cat and the Pink
Kitten?" asked the little dog in an anxious tone.

"They won't mind if you can't growl at them, I'm sure," said Dorothy.
"I'm sorry for you, of course, Toto, for it's just those things we
can't do that we want to do most of all; but before we get back, you
may find your growl again."

"Do you think the person who stole Ozma stole my growl?"

Dorothy smiled.

"Perhaps, Toto."

"Then he's a scoundrel!" cried the little dog.

"Anyone who would steal Ozma is as bad as bad can be," agreed Dorothy,
"and when we remember that our dear friend, the lovely Ruler of Oz, is
lost, we ought not to worry over just a growl."

Toto was not entirely satisfied with this remark, for the more he
thought upon his lost growl, the more important his misfortune became.
When no one was looking, he went away among the trees and tried his
best to growl--even a little bit--but could not manage to do so.  All
he could do was bark, and a bark cannot take the place of a growl, so
he sadly returned to the others.

Now Button-Bright had no idea that he was lost at first.  He had merely
wandered from tree to tree seeking the finest fruit until he discovered
he was alone in the great orchard.  But that didn't worry him just
then, and seeing some apricot trees farther on, he went to them.  Then
he discovered some cherry trees; just beyond these were some
tangerines.  "We've found 'most ev'ry kind of fruit but peaches," he
said to himself, "so I guess there are peaches here, too, if I can find
the trees."

He searched here and there, paying no attention to his way, until he
found that the trees surrounding him bore only nuts.  He put some
walnuts in his pockets and kept on searching, and at last--right among
the nut trees--he came upon one solitary peach tree.  It was a
graceful, beautiful tree, but although it was thickly leaved, it bore
no fruit except one large, splendid peach, rosy-cheeked and fuzzy and
just right to eat.

In his heart he doubted this statement, for this was a solitary peach
tree, while all the other fruits grew upon many trees set close to one
another; but that one luscious bite made him unable to resist eating
the rest of it, and soon the peach was all gone except the pit.
Button-Bright was about to throw this peach pit away when he noticed
that it was of pure gold.  Of course, this surprised him, but so many
things in the Land of Oz were surprising that he did not give much
thought to the golden peach pit.  He put it in his pocket, however, to
show to the girls, and five minutes afterward had forgotten all about
it.

For now he realized that he was far separated from his companions, and
knowing that this would worry them and delay their journey, he began to
shout as loud as he could.  His voice did not penetrate very far among
all those trees, and after shouting a dozen times and getting no
answer, he sat down on the ground and said, "Well, I'm lost again. It's
too bad, but I don't see how it can be helped."

As he leaned his back against a tree, he looked up and saw a Bluefinch
fly down from the sky and alight upon a branch just before him.  The
bird looked and looked at him.  First it looked with one bright eye and
then turned its head and looked at him with the other eye.  Then,
fluttering its wings a little, it said, "Oho!  So you've eaten the
enchanted peach, have you?"

"Was it enchanted?" asked Button-Bright.

"Of course," replied the Bluefinch. "Ugu the Shoemaker did that."

"But why?  And how was it enchanted?  And what will happen to one who
eats it?" questioned the boy.

"Ask Ugu the Shoemaker.  He knows," said the bird, preening its
feathers with its bill.

"And who is Ugu the Shoemaker?"

"The one who enchanted the peach and placed it here--in the exact
center of the Great Orchard--so no one would ever find it.  We birds
didn't dare to eat it; we are too wise for that.  But you are
Button-Bright from the Emerald City, and you, YOU, YOU ate the
enchanted peach!  You must explain to Ugu the Shoemaker why you did
that."

And then, before the boy could ask any more questions, the bird flew
away and left him alone.

Button-Bright was not much worried to find that the peach he had eaten
was enchanted.  It certainly had tasted very good, and his stomach
didn't ache a bit.  So again he began to reflect upon the best way to
rejoin his friends.  "Whichever direction I follow is likely to be the
wrong one," he said to himself, "so I'd better stay just where I am and
let THEM find ME--if they can."

A White Rabbit came hopping through the orchard and paused a little way
off to look at him.  "Don't be afraid," said Button-Bright.  "I won't
hurt you."

"Oh, I'm not afraid for myself," returned the White Rabbit.  "It's you
I'm worried about."

"Yes, I'm lost," said the boy.

"I fear you are, indeed," answered the Rabbit.  "Why on earth did you
eat the enchanted peach?"

The boy looked at the excited little animal thoughtfully.  "There were
two reasons," he explained.  "One reason was that I like peaches, and
the other reason was that I didn't know it was enchanted."

"That won't save you from Ugu the Shoemaker," declared the White
Rabbit, and it scurried away before the boy could ask any more
questions.

"Rabbits and birds," he thought, "are timid creatures and seem afraid
of this shoemaker, whoever he may be.  If there was another peach half
as good as that other, I'd eat it in spite of a dozen enchantments or a
hundred shoemakers!"

Just then, Scraps came dancing along and saw him sitting at the foot of
the tree.  "Oh, here you are!" she said.   "Up to your old tricks, eh?
Don't you know it's impolite to get lost and keep everybody waiting for
you?  Come along, and I'll lead you back to Dorothy and the others."

Button-Bright rose slowly to accompany her.

"That wasn't much of a loss," he said cheerfully.  "I haven't been gone
half a day, so there's no harm done."

Dorothy, however, when the boy rejoined the party, gave him a good
scolding.  "When we're doing such an important thing as searching for
Ozma," said she, "it's naughty for you to wander away and keep us from
getting on.  S'pose she's a pris'ner in a dungeon cell!  Do you want to
keep our dear Ozma there any longer than we can help?"

"If she's in a dungeon cell, how are you going to get her out?"
inquired the boy.

"Never you mind.  We'll leave that to the Wizard.  He's sure to find a
way."

The Wizard said nothing, for he realized that without his magic tools
he could do no more than any other person.  But there was no use
reminding his companions of that fact; it might discourage them.  "The
important thing just now," he remarked, "is to find Ozma, and as our
party is again happily reunited, I propose we move on."

As they came to the edge of the Great Orchard, the sun was setting and
they knew it would soon be dark.  So it was decided to camp under the
trees, as another broad plain was before them.  The Wizard spread the
blankets on a bed of soft leaves, and presently all of them except
Scraps and the Sawhorse were fast asleep.  Toto snuggled close to his
friend the Lion, and the Woozy snored so loudly that the Patchwork Girl
covered his square head with her apron to deaden the sound.




CHAPTER 12

THE CZAROVER OF HERKU


Trot wakened just as the sun rose, and slipping out of the blankets,
went to the edge of the Great Orchard and looked across the plain.
Something glittered in the far distance.  "That looks like another
city," she said half aloud.

"And another city it is," declared Scraps, who had crept to Trot's side
unheard, for her stuffed feet made no sound.  "The Sawhorse and I made
a journey in the dark while you were all asleep, and we found over
there a bigger city than Thi.  There's a wall around it, too, but it
has gates and plenty of pathways."

"Did you get in?" asked Trot.

"No, for the gates were locked and the wall was a real wall.  So we
came back here again.  It isn't far to the city.  We can reach it in
two hours after you've had your breakfasts."

Trot went back, and finding the other girls now awake, told them what
Scraps had said.  So they hurriedly ate some fruit--there were plenty
of plums and fijoas in this part of the orchard--and then they mounted
the animals and set out upon the journey to the strange city.  Hank the
Mule had breakfasted on grass, and the Lion had stolen away and found a
breakfast to his liking; he never told what it was, but Dorothy hoped
the little rabbits and the field mice had kept out of his way.  She
warned Toto not to chase birds and gave the dog some apple, with which
he was quite content.  The Woozy was as fond of fruit as of any other
food except honey, and the Sawhorse never ate at all.

Except for their worry over Ozma, they were all in good spirits as they
proceeded swiftly over the plain.  Toto still worried over his lost
growl, but like a wise little dog kept his worry to himself. Before
long, the city grew nearer and they could examine it with interest.

In outward appearance the place was more imposing than Thi, and it was
a square city, with a square, four-sided wall around it, and on each
side was a square gate of burnished copper.  Everything about the city
looked solid and substantial; there were no banners flying, and the
towers that rose above the city wall seemed bare of any ornament
whatever.

A path led from the fruit orchard directly to one of the city gates,
showing that the inhabitants preferred fruit to thistles.  Our friends
followed this path to the gate, which they found fast shut.  But the
Wizard advanced and pounded upon it with his fist, saying in a loud
voice, "Open!"

At once there rose above the great wall a row of immense heads, all of
which looked down at them as if to see who was intruding.  The size of
these heads was astonishing, and our friends at once realized that they
belonged to giants who were standing within the city.  All had thick,
bushy hair and whiskers, on some the hair being white and on others
black or red or yellow, while the hair of a few was just turning gray,
showing that the giants were of all ages.  However fierce the heads
might seem, the eyes were mild in expression, as if the creatures had
been long subdued, and their faces expressed patience rather than
ferocity.

"What's wanted?" asked one old giant in a low, grumbling voice.

"We are strangers, and we wish to enter the city," replied the Wizard.

"Do you come in war or peace?" asked another.

"In peace, of course," retorted the Wizard, and he added impatiently,
"Do we look like an army of conquest?"

"No," said the first giant who had spoken, "you look like innocent
tramps; but you never can tell by appearances.  Wait here until we
report to our masters.  No one can enter here without the permission of
Vig, the Czarover."

"Who's that?" inquired Dorothy.

But the heads had all bobbed down and disappeared behind the walls, so
there was no answer.  They waited a long time before the gate rolled
back with a rumbling sound, and a loud voice cried, "Enter!"  But they
lost no time in taking advantage of the invitation.

On either side of the broad street that led into the city from the gate
stood a row of huge giants, twenty of them on a side and all standing
so close together that their elbows touched.  They wore uniforms of
blue and yellow and were armed with clubs as big around as treetrunks.
Each giant had around his neck a broad band of gold, riveted on, to
show he was a slave.

As our friends entered riding upon the Lion, the Woozy, the Sawhorse
and the Mule, the giants half turned and walked in two files on either
side of them, as if escorting them on their way.  It looked to Dorothy
as if all her party had been made prisoners, for even mounted on their
animals their heads scarcely reached to the knees of the marching
giants.  The girls and Button-Bright were anxious to know what sort of
a city they had entered, and what the people were like who had made
these powerful creatures their slaves.  Through the legs of the giants
as they walked, Dorothy could see rows of houses on each side of the
street and throngs of people standing on the sidewalks, but the people
were of ordinary size and the only remarkable thing about them was the
fact that they were dreadfully lean and thin.  Between their skin and
their bones there seemed to be little or no flesh, and they were mostly
stoop-shouldered and weary looking, even to the little children.

More and more, Dorothy wondered how and why the great giants had ever
submitted to become slaves of such skinny, languid masters, but there
was no chance to question anyone until they arrived at a big palace
located in the heart of the city.  Here the giants formed lines to the
entrance and stood still while our friends rode into the courtyard of
the palace.  Then the gates closed behind them, and before them was a
skinny little man who bowed low and said in a sad voice, "If you will
be so obliging as to dismount, it will give me pleasure to lead you
into the presence of the World's Most Mighty Ruler, Vig the Czarover."

"I don't believe it!" said Dorothy indignantly.

"What don't you believe?" asked the man.

"I don't believe your Czarover can hold a candle to our Ozma."

"He wouldn't hold a candle under any circumstances, or to any living
person," replied the man very seriously, "for he has slaves to do such
things and the Mighty Vig is too dignified to do anything that others
can do for him.  He even obliges a slave to sneeze for him, if ever he
catches cold.  However, if you dare to face our powerful ruler, follow
me."

"We dare anything," said the Wizard, "so go ahead."

Through several marble corridors having lofty ceilings they passed,
finding each corridor and doorway guarded by servants.  But these
servants of the palace were of the people and not giants, and they were
so thin that they almost resembled skeletons.  Finally, they entered a
great circular room with a high, domed ceiling, where the Czarover sat
on a throne cut from a solid block of white marble and decorated with
purple silk hangings and gold tassels.

The ruler of these people was combing his eyebrows when our friends
entered the throne room and stood before him, but he put the comb in
his pocket and examined the strangers with evident curiosity.  Then he
said, "Dear me, what a surprise!  You have really shocked me.  For no
outsider has ever before come to our City of Herku, and I cannot
imagine why you have ventured to do so."

"We are looking for Ozma, the Supreme Ruler of the Land of Oz," replied
the Wizard.

"Do you see her anywhere around here?" asked the Czarover.

"Not yet, Your Majesty, but perhaps you may tell us where she is."

"No, I have my hands full keeping track of my own people.  I find them
hard to manage because they are so tremendously strong."

"They don't look very strong," said Dorothy. "It seems as if a good
wind would blow 'em way out of the city if it wasn't for the wall."

"Just so, just so," admitted the Czarover.  "They really look that way,
don't they?  But you must never trust to appearances, which have a way
of fooling one.  Perhaps you noticed that I prevented you from meeting
any of my people.  I protected you with my giants while you were on the
way from the gates to my palace so that not a Herku got near you."

"Are your people so dangerous, then?" asked the Wizard.

"To strangers, yes.  But only because they are so friendly.  For if
they shake hands with you, they are likely to break your arms or crush
your fingers to a jelly."

"Why?" asked Button-Bright.

"Because we are the strongest people in all the world."

"Pshaw!" exclaimed the boy.  "That's bragging.  You prob'ly don't know
how strong other people are.  Why, once I knew a man in Philadelphi'
who could bend iron bars with just his hands!"

"But mercy me, it's no trick to bend iron bars," said His Majesty.
"Tell me, could this man crush a block of stone with his bare hands?"

"No one could do that," declared the boy.

"If I had a block of stone, I'd show you," said the Czarover, looking
around the room.  "Ah, here is my throne.  The back is too high,
anyhow, so I'll just break off a piece of that."  He rose to his feet
and tottered in an uncertain way around the throne.  Then he took hold
of the back and broke off a piece of marble over a foot thick. "This,"
said he, coming back to his seat, "is very solid marble and much harder
than ordinary stone.  Yet I can crumble it easily with my fingers, a
proof that I am very strong."

Even as he spoke, he began breaking off chunks of marble and crumbling
them as one would a bit of earth.  The Wizard was so astonished that he
took a piece in his own hands and tested it, finding it very hard
indeed.

Just then one of the giant servants entered and exclaimed, "Oh, Your
Majesty, the cook has burned the soup!  What shall we do?"

"How dare you interrupt me?" asked the Czarover, and grasping the
immense giant by one of his legs, he raised him in the air and threw
him headfirst out of an open window.  "Now, tell me," he said, turning
to Button-Bright, "could your man in Philadelphia crumble marble in his
fingers?"

"I guess not," said Button-Bright, much impressed by the skinny
monarch's strength.

"What makes you so strong?" inquired Dorothy.

"It's the zosozo," he explained, "which is an invention of my own.  I
and all my people eat zosozo, and it gives us tremendous strength.
Would you like to eat some?"

"No thank you," replied the girl.  "I--I don't want to get so thin."

"Well, of course one can't have strength and flesh at the same time,"
said the Czarover.  "Zosozo is pure energy, and it's the only compound
of its sort in existence.  I never allow our giants to have it, you
know, or they would soon become our masters, since they are bigger that
we; so I keep all the stuff locked up in my private laboratory. Once a
year I feed a teaspoonful of it to each of my people--men, women and
children--so every one of them is nearly as strong as I am. Wouldn't
YOU like a dose, sir?" he asked, turning to the Wizard.

"Well," said the Wizard, "if you would give me a little zosozo in a
bottle, I'd like to take it with me on my travels.  It might come in
handy on occasion."

"To be sure.  I'll give you enough for six doses," promised the
Czarover.

"But don't take more than a teaspoonful at a time.  Once Ugu the
Shoemaker took two teaspoonsful, and it made him so strong that when he
leaned against the city wall, he pushed it over, and we had to build it
up again."

"Who is Ugu the Shoemaker?"

Button-Bright curiously, for he now remembered that the bird and the
rabbit had claimed Ugu the Shoemaker had enchanted the peach he had
eaten.

"Why, Ugu is a great magician who used to live here.  But he's gone
away now," replied the Czarover.

"Where has he gone?" asked the Wizard quickly.

"I am told he lives in a wickerwork castle in the mountains to the west
of here.  You see, Ugu became such a powerful magician that he didn't
care to live in our city any longer for fear we would discover some of
his secrets.  So he went to the mountains and built him a splendid
wicker castle which is so strong that even I and my people could not
batter it down, and there he lives all by himself."

"This is good news," declared the Wizard, "for I think this is just the
magician we are searching for.  But why is he called Ugu the Shoemaker?"

"Once he was a very common citizen here and made shoes for a living,"
replied the monarch of Herku.  "But he was descended from the greatest
wizard and sorcerer who ever lived in this or in any other country, and
one day Ugu the Shoemaker discovered all the magical books and recipes
of his famous great-grandfather, which had been hidden away in the
attic of his house.  So he began to study the papers and books and to
practice magic, and in time he became so skillful that, as I said, he
scorned our city and built a solitary castle for himself."

"Do you think," asked Dorothy anxiously, "that Ugu the Shoemaker would
be wicked enough to steal our Ozma of Oz?"

"And the Magic Picture?" asked Trot.

"And the Great Book of Records of Glinda the Good?" asked Betsy.

"And my own magic tools?" asked the Wizard.

"Well," replied the Czarover, "I won't say that Ugu is wicked, exactly,
but he is very ambitious to become the most powerful magician in the
world, and so I suppose he would not be too proud to steal any magic
things that belonged to anybody else--if he could manage to do so."

"But how about Ozma?  Why would he wish to steal HER?" questioned
Dorothy.

"Don't ask me, my dear.  Ugu doesn't tell me why he does things, I
assure you."

"Then we must go and ask him ourselves," declared the little girl.

"I wouldn't do that if I were you," advised the Czarover, looking first
at the three girls and then at the boy and the little Wizard and
finally at the stuffed Patchwork Girl.  "If Ugu has really stolen your
Ozma, he will probably keep her a prisoner, in spite of all your
threats or entreaties.  And with all his magical knowledge he would be
a dangerous person to attack.  Therefore, if you are wise, you will go
home again and find a new Ruler for the Emerald City and the Land of
Oz.  But perhaps it isn't Ugu the Shoemaker who has stolen your Ozma."

"The only way to settle that question," replied the Wizard, "is to go
to Ugu's castle and see if Ozma is there.  If she is, we will report
the matter to the great Sorceress Glinda the Good, and I'm pretty sure
she will find a way to rescue our darling ruler from the Shoemaker."

"Well, do as you please," said the Czarover, "but if you are all
transformed into hummingbirds or caterpillars, don't blame me for not
warning you."

They stayed the rest of that day in the City of Herku and were fed at
the royal table of the Czarover and given sleeping rooms in his palace.
The strong monarch treated them very nicely and gave the Wizard a
little golden vial of zosozo to use if ever he or any of his party
wished to acquire great strength.

Even at the last, the Czarover tried to persuade them not to go near
Ugu the Shoemaker, but they were resolved on the venture, and the next
morning bade the friendly monarch a cordial goodbye and, mounting upon
their animals, left the Herkus and the City of Herku and headed for the
mountains that lay to the west.




CHAPTER 13

THE TRUTH POND


It seems a long time since we have heard anything of the Frogman and
Cayke the Cookie Cook, who had left the Yip Country in search of the
diamond-studded dishpan which had been mysteriously stolen the same
night that Ozma had disappeared from the Emerald City. But you must
remember that while the Frogman and the Cookie Cook were preparing to
descend from their mountaintop, and even while on their way to the
farmhouse of Wiljon the Winkie, Dorothy and the Wizard and their
friends were encountering the adventures we have just related.

So it was that on the very morning when the travelers from the Emerald
City bade farewell to the Czarover of the City of Herku, Cayke and the
Frogman awoke in a grove in which they had passed the night sleeping on
beds of leaves.  There were plenty of farmhouses in the neighborhood,
but no one seemed to welcome the puffy, haughty Frogman or the little
dried-up Cookie Cook, and so they slept comfortably enough underneath
the trees of the grove.  The Frogman wakened first on this morning, and
after going to the tree where Cayke slept and finding her still wrapped
in slumber, he decided to take a little walk and seek some breakfast.
Coming to the edge of the grove, he observed half a mile away a pretty
yellow house that was surrounded by a yellow picket fence, so he walked
toward this house and on entering the yard found a Winkie woman picking
up sticks with which to build a fire to cook her morning meal.

"For goodness sake!" she exclaimed on seeing the Frogman.  "What are
you doing out of your frog-pond?"

"I am traveling in search of a jeweled gold dishpan, my good woman," he
replied with an air of great dignity.

"You won't find it here, then," said she.  "Our dishpans are tin, and
they're good enough for anybody.  So go back to your pond and leave me
alone."  She spoke rather crossly and with a lack of respect that
greatly annoyed the Frogman.

"Allow me to tell you, madam," said he, "that although I am a frog, I
am the Greatest and Wisest Frog in all the world.  I may add that I
possess much more wisdom than any Winkie--man or woman--in this land.
Wherever I go, people fall on their knees before me and render homage
to the Great Frogman!  No one else knows so much as I; no one else is
so grand, so magnificent!"

"If you know so much," she retorted, "why don't you know where your
dishpan is instead of chasing around the country after it?"

"Presently," he answered, "I am going where it is, but just now I am
traveling and have had no breakfast.  Therefore I honor you by asking
you for something to eat."

"Oho!  The Great Frogman is hungry as any tramp, is he?  Then pick up
these sticks and help me to build the fire," said the woman
contemptuously.

"Me!   The Great Frogman pick up sticks?" he exclaimed in horror.  "In
the Yip Country where I am more honored and powerful than any King
could be, people weep with joy when I ask them to feed me."

"Then that's the place to go for your breakfast," declared the woman.

"I fear you do not realize my importance," urged the Frogman.
"Exceeding wisdom renders me superior to menial duties."

"It's a great wonder to me," remarked the woman, carrying her sticks to
the house, "that your wisdom doesn't inform you that you'll get no
breakfast here."  And she went in and slammed the door behind her.

The Frogman felt he had been insulted, so he gave a loud croak of
indignation and turned away.  After going a short distance, he came
upon a faint path which led across a meadow in the direction of a grove
of pretty trees, and thinking this circle of evergreens must surround a
house where perhaps he would be kindly received, he decided to follow
the path.  And by and by he came to the trees, which were set close
together, and pushing aside some branches he found no house inside the
circle, but instead a very beautiful pond of clear water.

Now the Frogman, although he was so big and well educated and now aped
the ways and customs of human beings, was still a frog.  As he gazed at
this solitary, deserted pond, his love for water returned to him with
irresistible force.  "If I cannot get a breakfast, I may at least have
a fine swim," said he, and pushing his way between the trees, he
reached the bank.  There he took off his fine clothing, laying his
shiny purple hat and his gold-headed cane beside it.  A moment later,
he sprang with one leap into the water and dived to the very bottom of
the pond.

The water was deliciously cool and grateful to his thick, rough skin,
and the Frogman swam around the pond several times before he stopped to
rest.  Then he floated upon the surface and examined the pond. The
bottom and sides were all lined with glossy tiles of a light pink
color; just one place in the bottom where the water bubbled up from a
hidden spring had been left free.  On the banks, the green grass grew
to the edge of the pink tiling.  And now, as the Frogman examined the
place, he found that on one side of the pool, just above the water
line, had been set a golden plate on which some words were deeply
engraved.  He swam toward this plate, and on reaching it read the
following inscription:

      _This is_
    THE TRUTH POND
  _Whoever bathes in this
    water must always
    afterward tell_
      THE TRUTH.


This statement startled the Frogman.  It even worried him, so that he
leaped upon the bank and hurriedly began to dress himself.  "A great
misfortune has befallen me," he told himself, "for hereafter I cannot
tell people I am wise, since it is not the truth.  The truth is that my
boasted wisdom is all a sham, assumed by me to deceive people and make
them defer to me.  In truth, no living creature can know much more than
his fellows, for one may know one thing, and another know another
thing, so that wisdom is evenly scattered throughout the world.
But--ah me!--what a terrible fate will now be mine.  Even Cayke the
Cookie Cook will soon discover that my knowledge is no greater than her
own, for having bathed in the enchanted water of the Truth Pond, I can
no longer deceive her or tell a lie."

More humbled than he had been for many years, the Frogman went back to
the grove where he had left Cayke and found the woman now awake and
washing her face in a tiny brook.  "Where has Your Honor been?" she
asked.

"To a farmhouse to ask for something to eat," said he, "but the woman
refused me."

"How dreadful!" she exclaimed.  "But never mind, there are other houses
where the people will be glad to feed the Wisest Creature in all the
World."

"Do you mean yourself?" he asked.

"No, I mean you."

The Frogman felt strongly impelled to tell the truth, but struggled
hard against it.  His reason told him there was no use in letting Cayke
know he was not wise, for then she would lose much respect for him, but
each time he opened his mouth to speak, he realized he was about to
tell the truth and shut it again as quickly as possible.  He tried to
talk about something else, but the words necessary to undeceive the
woman would force themselves to his lips in spite of all his struggles.
Finally, knowing that he must either remain dumb or let the truth
prevail, he gave a low groan of despair and said, "Cayke, I am NOT the
Wisest Creature in all the World; I am not wise at all."

"Oh, you must be!" she protested. "You told me so yourself, only last
evening."

"Then last evening I failed to tell you the truth," he admitted,
looking very shamefaced for a frog.  "I am sorry I told you this lie,
my good Cayke, but if you must know the truth, the whole truth and
nothing but the truth, I am not really as wise as you are."

The Cookie Cook was greatly shocked to hear this, for it shattered one
of her most pleasing illusions.  She looked at the gorgeously dressed
Frogman in amazement.  "What has caused you to change your mind so
suddenly?" she inquired.

"I have bathed in the Truth Pond," he said, "and whoever bathes in that
water is ever afterward obliged to tell the truth."

"You were foolish to do that," declared the woman.

"It is often very embarrassing to tell the truth.  I'm glad I didn't
bathe in that dreadful water!"

The Frogman looked at his companion thoughtfully.  "Cayke," said he, "I
want you to go to the Truth Pond and take a bath in its water.  For if
we are to travel together and encounter unknown adventures, it would
not be fair that I alone must always tell you the truth, while you
could tell me whatever you pleased.  If we both dip in the enchanted
water, there will be no chance in the future of our deceiving one
another."

"No," she asserted, shaking her head positively, "I won't do it, Your
Honor.  For if I told you the truth, I'm sure you wouldn't like me. No
Truth Pond for me.  I'll be just as I am, an honest woman who can say
what she wants to without hurting anyone's feelings."

With this decision the Frogman was forced to be content, although he
was sorry the Cookie Cook would not listen to his advice.




CHAPTER 14

THE UNHAPPY FERRYMAN


Leaving the grove where they had slept, the Frogman and the Cookie Cook
turned to the east to seek another house, and after a short walk came
to one where the people received them very politely.  The children
stared rather hard at the big, pompous Frogman, but the woman of the
house, when Cayke asked for something to eat, at once brought them food
and said they were welcome to it.  "Few people in need of help pass
this way," she remarked, "for the Winkies are all prosperous and love
to stay in their own homes.  But perhaps you are not a Winkie," she
added.

"No," said Cayke, "I am a Yip, and my home is on a high mountain at the
southeast of your country."

"And the Frogman, is he also a Yip?"

"I do not know what he is, other than a very remarkable and highly
educated creature," replied the Cookie Cook.  "But he has lived many
years among the Yips, who have found him so wise and intelligent that
they always go to him for advice."

"May I ask why you have left your home and where you are going?" said
the Winkie woman.

Then Cayke told her of the diamond-studded gold dishpan and how it had
been mysteriously stolen from her house, after which she had discovered
that she could no longer cook good cookies.  So she had resolved to
search until she found her dishpan again, because a Cookie cook who
cannot cook good cookies is not of much use.  The Frogman, who had
wanted to see more of the world, had accompanied her to assist in the
search.  When the woman had listened to this story, she asked, "Then
you have no idea as yet who has stolen your dishpan?"

"I only know it must have been some mischievous fairy, or a magician,
or some such powerful person, because none other could have climbed the
steep mountain to the Yip Country.  And who else could have carried
away my beautiful magic dishpan without being seen?"

The woman thought about this during the time that Cayke and the Frogman
ate their breakfast.  When they had finished, she said, "Where are you
going next?"

"We have not decided," answered the Cookie cook.

"Our plan," explained the Frogman in his important way, "is to travel
from place to place until we learn where the thief is located and then
to force him to return the dishpan to its proper owner."

"The plan is all right," agreed the woman, "but it may take you a long
time before you succeed, your method being sort of haphazard and
indefinite.  However, I advise you to travel toward the east."

"Why?" asked the Frogman.

"Because if you went west, you would soon come to the desert, and also
because in this part of the Winkie Country no one steals, so your time
here would be wasted.  But toward the east, beyond the river, live many
strange people whose honesty I would not vouch for.  Moreover, if you
journey far enough east and cross the river for a second time, you will
come to the Emerald City, where there is much magic and sorcery. The
Emerald City is ruled by a dear little girl called Ozma, who also rules
the Emperor of the Winkies and all the Land of Oz.  So, as Ozma is a
fairy, she may be able to tell you just who has taken your precious
dishpan.  Provided, of course, you do not find it before you reach her."

"This seems to be to be excellent advice," said the Frogman, and Cayke
agreed with him.

"The most sensible thing for you to do," continued the woman, "would be
to return to your home and use another dishpan, learn to cook cookies
as other people cook cookies, without the aid of magic.  But if you
cannot be happy without the magic dishpan you have lost, you are likely
to learn more about it in the Emerald City than at any other place in
Oz."

They thanked the good woman, and on leaving her house faced the east
and continued in that direction all the way.  Toward evening they came
to the west branch of the Winkie River and there, on the riverbank,
found a ferryman who lived all alone in a little yellow house.  This
ferryman was a Winkie with a very small head and a very large body. He
was sitting in his doorway as the travelers approached him and did not
even turn his head to look at them.

"Good evening," said the Frogman.

The ferryman made no reply.

"We would like some supper and the privilege of sleeping in your house
until morning," continued the Frogman.  "At daybreak, we would like
some breakfast, and then we would like to have you row us across the
river."

The ferryman neither moved nor spoke.  He sat in his doorway and looked
straight ahead.  "I think he must be deaf and dumb," Cayke whispered to
her companion.  Then she stood directly in front of the ferryman, and
putting her mouth close to his ear, she yelled as loudly as she could,
"Good evening!"

The ferryman scowled.

"Why do you yell at me, woman?" he asked.

"Can you hear what I say?" asked in her ordinary tone of voice.

"Of course," replied the man.

"Then why didn't you answer the Frogman?"

"Because," said the ferryman, "I don't understand the frog language."

"He speaks the same words that I do and in the same way," declared
Cayke.

"Perhaps," replied the ferryman, "but to me his voice sounded like a
frog's croak.  I know that in the Land of Oz animals can speak our
language, and so can the birds and bugs and fishes; but in MY ears,
they sound merely like growls and chirps and croaks."

"Why is that?" asked the Cookie Cook in surprise.

"Once, many years ago, I cut the tail off a fox which had taunted me,
and I stole some birds' eggs from a nest to make an omelet with, and
also I pulled a fish from the river and left it lying on the bank to
gasp for lack of water until it died.  I don't know why I did those
wicked things, but I did them.  So the Emperor of the Winkies--who is
the Tin Woodman and has a very tender tin heart--punished me by denying
me any communication with beasts, birds or fishes.  I cannot understand
them when they speak to me, although I know that other people can do
so, nor can the creatures understand a word I say to them.  Every time
I meet one of them, I am reminded of my former cruelty, and it makes me
very unhappy."

"Really," said Cayke, "I'm sorry for you, although the Tin Woodman is
not to blame for punishing you."

"What is he mumbling about?" asked the Frogman.

"He is talking to me, but you don't understand him," she replied.  And
then she told him of the ferryman's punishment and afterward explained
to the ferryman that they wanted to stay all night with him and be fed.

He gave them some fruit and bread, which was the only sort of food he
had, and he allowed Cayke to sleep in a room of his cottage. But the
Frogman he refused to admit to his house, saying that the frog's
presence made him miserable and unhappy.  At no time would he look
directly at the Frogman, or even toward him, fearing he would shed
tears if he did so; so the big frog slept on the riverbank where he
could hear little frogs croaking in the river all the night through.
But that did not keep him awake; it merely soothed him to slumber, for
he realized how much superior he was to them.

Just as the sun was rising on a new day, the ferryman rowed the two
travelers across the river--keeping his back to the Frogman all the
way--and then Cayke thanked him and bade him goodbye and the ferryman
rowed home again.

On this side of the river, there were no paths at all, so it was
evident they had reached a part of the country little frequented by
travelers.  There was a marsh at the south of them, sandhills at the
north, and a growth of scrubby underbrush leading toward a forest at
the east.  So the east was really the least difficult way to go, and
that direction was the one they had determined to follow.

Now the Frogman, although he wore green patent-leather shoes with ruby
buttons, had very large and flat feet, and when he tramped through the
scrub, his weight crushed down the underbrush and made a path for Cayke
to follow him.  Therefore they soon reached the forest, where the tall
trees were set far apart but were so leafy that they shaded all the
spaces between them with their branches.  "There are no bushes here,"
said Cayke, much pleased, "so we can now travel faster and with more
comfort."




CHAPTER 15

THE BIG LAVENDER BEAR


It was a pleasant place to wander, and the two travelers were
proceeding at a brisk pace when suddenly a voice shouted, "Halt!"

They looked around in surprise, seeing at first no one at all.  Then
from behind a tree there stepped a brown, fuzzy bear whose head came
about as high as Cayke's waist--and Cayke was a small woman.  The bear
was chubby as well as fuzzy; his body was even puffy, while his legs
and arms seemed jointed at the knees and elbows and fastened to his
body by pins or rivets.  His ears were round in shape and stuck out in
a comical way, while his round, black eyes were bright and sparkling as
beads.  Over his shoulder the little brown bear bore a gun with a tin
barrel.  The barrel had a cork in the end of it, and a string was
attached to the cork and to the handle of the gun.  Both the Frogman
and Cayke gazed hard at this curious bear, standing silent for some
time.  But finally the Frogman recovered from his surprise and
remarked, "It seems to me that you are stuffed with sawdust and ought
not to be alive."

"That's all you know about it," answered the little Brown Bear in a
squeaky voice.  "I am stuffed with a very good quality of curled hair,
and my skin is the best plush that was ever made.  As for my being
alive, that is my own affair and cannot concern you at all, except that
it gives me the privilege to say you are my prisoners."

"Prisoners!  Why do you speak such nonsense?" the Frogman angrily.  "Do
you think we are afraid of a toy bear with a toy gun?"

"You ought to be," was the confident reply, "for I am merely the sentry
guarding the way to Bear Center, which is a city containing hundreds of
my race, who are ruled by a very powerful sorcerer known as the
Lavender Bear.  He ought to be a purple color, you know, seeing he is a
King, but he's only light lavender, which is, of course, second cousin
to royal purple.  So unless you come with me peaceably as my prisoners,
I shall fire my gun and bring a hundred bears of all sizes and colors
to capture you."

"Why do you wish to capture us?" inquired the Frogman, who had listened
to his speech with much astonishment.

"I don't wish to, as a matter of fact," replied the little Brown Bear,
"but it is my duty to, because you are now trespassing on the domain of
His Majesty, the King of Bear Center.  Also, I will admit that things
are rather quiet in our city just now, and the excitement of your
capture, followed by your trial and execution, should afford us much
entertainment."

"We defy you!" said the Frogman.

"Oh no, don't do that," pleaded Cayke, speaking to her companion.  "He
says his King is a sorcerer, so perhaps it is he or one of his bears
who ventured to steal my jeweled dishpan.  Let us go to the City of the
Bears and discover if my dishpan is there."

"I must now register one more charge against you," remarked the little
Brown Bear with evident satisfaction.  "You have just accused us of
stealing, and that is such a dreadful thing to say that I am quite sure
our noble King will command you to be executed."

"But how could you execute us?" inquired the Cookie Cook.

"I've no idea. But our King is a wonderful inventor, and there is no
doubt he can find a proper way to destroy you.  So tell me, are you
going to struggle, or will you go peaceably to meet your doom?"

It was all so ridiculous that Cayke laughed aloud, and even the
Frogman's wide mouth curled in a smile.  Neither was a bit afraid to go
to the Bear City, and it seemed to both that there was a possibility
they might discover the missing dishpan.  So the Frogman said, "Lead
the way, little Bear, and we will follow without a struggle."

"That's very sensible of you, very sensible indeed," declared the Brown
Bear.  "So for-ward, MARCH!" And with the command he turned around and
began to waddle along a path that led between the trees.

Cayke and the Frogman, as they followed their conductor, could scarce
forbear laughing at his stiff, awkward manner of walking, and although
he moved his stuffy legs fast, his steps were so short that they had to
go slowly in order not to run into him. But after a time they reached a
large, circular space in the center of the forest, which was clear of
any stumps or underbrush.  The ground was covered by a soft, gray moss,
pleasant to tread upon.  All the trees surrounding this space seemed to
be hollow and had round holes in their trunks, set a little way above
the ground, but otherwise there was nothing unusual about the place and
nothing, in the opinion of the prisoners, to indicate a settlement.
But the little Brown Bear said in a proud and impressive voice
(although it still squeaked), "This is the wonderful city known to fame
as Bear Center!"

"But there are no houses, there are no bears living here at all!"
exclaimed Cayke.

"Oh indeed!" retorted their captor, and raising his gun he pulled the
trigger.  The cork flew out of the tin barrel with a loud "pop!" and at
once from every hole in every tree within view of the clearing appeared
the head of a bear.  They were of many colors and of many sizes, but
all were made in the same manner as the bear who had met and captured
them.

At first a chorus of growls arose, and then a sharp voice cried, "What
has happened, Corporal Waddle?"

"Captives, Your Majesty!" answered the Brown Bear.  "Intruders upon our
domain and slanderers of our good name."

"Ah, that's important," answered the voice.

Then from out the hollow trees tumbled a whole regiment of stuffed
bears, some carrying tin swords, some popguns and others long spears
with gay ribbons tied to the handles.  There were hundreds of them,
altogether, and they quietly formed a circle around the Frogman and the
Cookie Cook, but kept at a distance and left a large space for the
prisoners to stand in.  Presently, this circle parted, and into the
center of it stalked a huge toy bear of a lovely lavender color.  He
walked upon his hind legs, as did all the others, and on his head he
wore a tin crown set with diamonds and amethysts, while in one paw he
carried a short wand of some glittering metal that resembled silver but
wasn't.

"His Majesty the King!" Corporal Waddle, and all the bears bowed low.
Some bowed so low that they lost their balance and toppled over, but
they soon scrambled up again, and the Lavender King squatted on his
haunches before the prisoners and gazed at them steadily with his
bright, pink eyes.




CHAPTER 16

THE LITTLE PINK BEAR


"One Person and one Freak," said the big Lavender Bear when he had
carefully examined the strangers.

"I am sorry to hear you call poor Cayke the Cookie Cook a Freak,"
remonstrated the Frogman.

"She is the Person," asserted the King.  "Unless I am mistaken, it is
you who are the Freak."

The Frogman was silent, for he could not truthfully deny it.

"Why have you dared intrude in my forest?" demanded the Bear King.

"We didn't know it was your forest," said Cayke, "and we are on our way
to the far east, where the Emerald City is."

"Ah, it's a long way from here to the Emerald City," remarked the King.
"It is so far away, indeed, that no bear among us has even been there.
But what errand requires you to travel such a distance?"

"Someone has stolen my diamond-studded gold dishpan," explained Cayke,
"and as I cannot be happy without it, I have decided to search the
world over until I find it again.  The Frogman, who is very learned and
wonderfully wise, has come with me to give me his assistance. Isn't it
kind of him?"

The King looked at the Frogman.

"What makes you so wonderfully wise?" he asked.

"I'm not," was the candid reply.  "The Cookie Cook and some others in
the Yip Country think because I am a big frog and talk and act like a
man that I must be very wise.  I have learned more than a frog usually
knows, it is true, but I am not yet so wise as I hope to become at some
future time."

The King nodded, and when he did so, something squeaked in his chest.

"Did Your Majesty speak?" asked Cayke.

"Not just then," answered the Lavender Bear, seeming to be somewhat
embarrassed.  "I am so built, you must know, that when anything pushes
against my chest, as my chin accidentally did just then, I make that
silly noise.  In this city it isn't considered good manners to notice.
But I like your Frogman.  He is honest and truthful, which is more than
can be said of many others.  As for your late lamented dishpan, I'll
show it to you."

With this he waved three times the metal wand which he held in his paw,
and instantly there appeared upon the ground midway between the King
and Cayke a big, round pan made of beaten gold.  Around the top edge
was a row of small diamonds; around the center of the pan was another
row of larger diamonds; and at the bottom was a row of exceedingly
large and brilliant diamonds.  In fact, they all sparkled
magnificently, and the pan was so big and broad that it took a lot of
diamonds to go around it three times.

Cayke stared so hard that her eyes seemed about to pop out of her head.
"O-o-o-h!" she exclaimed, drawing a deep breath of delight.

"Is this your dishpan?" inquired the King.

"It is, it is!" cried the Cookie Cook, and rushing forward, she fell on
her knees and threw her arms around the precious pan.  But her arms
came together without meeting any resistance at all.  Cayke tried to
seize the edge, but found nothing to grasp.  The pan was surely there,
she thought, for she could see it plainly; but it was not solid; she
could not feel it at all.  With a moan of astonishment and despair, she
raised her head to look at the Bear King, who was watching her actions
curiously.  Then she turned to the pan again, only to find it had
completely disappeared.

"Poor creature!" murmured the King pityingly.  "You must have thought,
for the moment, that you had actually recovered your dishpan.  But what
you saw was merely the image of it, conjured up by means of my magic.
It is a pretty dishpan, indeed, though rather big and awkward to
handle.  I hope you will some day find it."

Cayke was grievously disappointed.  She began to cry, wiping her eyes
on her apron.  The King turned to the throng of toy bears surrounding
him and asked, "Has any of you ever seen this golden dishpan before?"

"No," they answered in a chorus.

The King seemed to reflect.  Presently he inquired, "Where is the
Little Pink Bear?"

"At home, Your Majesty," was the reply.

"Fetch him here," commanded the King.

Several of the bears waddled over to one of the trees and pulled from
its hollow a tiny pink bear, smaller than any of the others. A big,
white bear carried the pink one in his arms and set it down beside the
King, arranging the joints of its legs so that it would stand upright.

This Pink Bear seemed lifeless until the King turned a crank which
protruded from its side, when the little creature turned its head
stiffly from side to side and said in a small, shrill voice, "Hurrah
for the King of Bear Center!"

"Very good," said the big Lavender Bear.  "He seems to be working very
well today.  Tell me, my Pink Pinkerton, what has become of this lady's
jeweled dishpan?"

"U-u-u," said the Pink Bear, and then stopped short.

The King turned the crank again.

"U-g-u the Shoemaker has it," said the Pink Bear.

"Who is Ugu the Shoemaker?" demanded the King, again turning the crank.

"A magician who lives on a mountain in a wickerwork castle," was the
reply.

"Where is the mountain?" was the next question.

"Nineteen miles and three furlongs from Bear Center to the northeast."

"And is the dishpan still at the castle of Ugu the Shoemaker?" asked
the King.

"It is."

The King turned to Cayke.

"You may rely on this information," said he.  "The Pink Bear can tell
us anything we wish to know, and his words are always words of truth."

"Is he alive?" asked the Frogman, much interested in the Pink Bear.

"Something animates him when you turn his crank," replied the King. "I
do not know if it is life or what it is or how it happens that the
Little Pink Bear can answer correctly every question put to him.  We
discovered his talent a long time ago, and whenever we wish to know
anything--which is not very often--we ask the Pink Bear.  There is no
doubt whatever, madam, that Ugu the Magician has your dishpan, and if
you dare to go to him, you may be able to recover it.  But of that I am
not certain."

"Can't the Pink Bear tell?" asked Cayke anxiously.

"No, for that is in the future.  He can tell anything that HAS
happened, but nothing that is going to happen.  Don't ask me why, for I
don't know."

"Well," said the Cookie Cook after a little thought, "I mean to go to
this magician, anyhow, and tell him I want my dishpan.  I wish I knew
what Ugu the Shoemaker is like."

"Then I'll show him to you," promised the King.  "But do not be
frightened.  It won't be Ugu, remember, but only his image."  With
this, he waved his metal wand, and in the circle suddenly appeared a
thin little man, very old and skinny, who was seated on a wicker stool
before a wicker table.  On the table lay a Great Book with gold clasps.
The Book was open, and the man was reading in it.  He wore great
spectacles which were fastened before his eyes by means of a ribbon
that passed around his head and was tied in a bow at the neck. His hair
was very thin and white; his skin, which clung fast to his bones, was
brown and seared with furrows; he had a big, fat nose and little eyes
set close together.

On no account was Ugu the Shoemaker a pleasant person to gaze at.  As
his image appeared before them, all were silent and intent until
Corporal Waddle, the Brown Bear, became nervous and pulled the trigger
of his gun.  Instantly, the cork flew out of the tin barrel with a loud
"pop!" that made them all jump.  And at this sound, the image of the
magician vanished.

"So THAT'S the thief, is it?" said Cayke in an angry voice. "I should
think he'd be ashamed of himself for stealing a poor woman's diamond
dishpan!  But I mean to face him in his wicker castle and force him to
return my property."

"To me," said the Bear King reflectively, "he looked like a dangerous
person.  I hope he won't be so unkind as to argue the matter with you."

The Frogman was much disturbed by the vision of Ugu the Shoemaker, and
Cayke's determination to go to the magician filled her companion with
misgivings.  But he would not break his pledged word to assist the
Cookie Cook, and after breathing a deep sigh of resignation, he asked
the King, "Will Your Majesty lend us this Pink Bear who answers
questions that we may take him with us on our journey?  He would be
very useful to us, and we will promise to bring him safely back to you."

The King did not reply at once.  He seemed to be thinking.

"PLEASE let us take the Pink Bear," begged Cayke.  "I'm sure he would
be a great help to us."

"The Pink Bear," said the King, "is the best bit of magic I possess,
and there is not another like him in the world.  I do not care to let
him out of my sight, nor do I wish to disappoint you; so I believe I
will make the journey in your company and carry my Pink Bear with me.
He can walk when you wind the other side of him, but so slowly and
awkwardly that he would delay you.  But if I go along, I can carry him
in my arms, so I will join your party.  Whenever you are ready to
start, let me know."

"But Your Majesty!" exclaimed Corporal Waddle in protest, "I hope you
do not intend to let these prisoners escape without punishment."

"Of what crime do you accuse them?" inquired the King.

"Why, they trespassed on your domain, for one thing," said the Brown
Bear.

"We didn't know it was private property, Your Majesty," said the Cookie
Cook. "And they asked if any of us had stolen the dishpan!" continued
Corporal Waddle indignantly.  "That is the same thing as calling us
thieves and robbers and bandits and brigands, is it not?"

"Every person has the right to ask questions," said the Frogman.

"But the Corporal is quite correct," declared the Lavender Bear.  "I
condemn you both to death, the execution to take place ten years from
this hour."

"But we belong in the Land of Oz, where no one ever dies," Cayke
reminded him.

"Very true," said the King.  "I condemn you to death merely as a matter
of form.  It sounds quite terrible, and in ten years we shall have
forgotten all about it.  Are you ready to start for the wicker castle
of Ugu the Shoemaker?"

"Quite ready, Your Majesty."

"But who will rule in your place while you are gone?" asked a big
Yellow Bear.

"I myself will rule while I am gone," was the reply.

"A King isn't required to stay at home forever, and if he takes a
notion to travel, whose business is it but his own?  All I ask is that
you bears behave yourselves while I am away.  If any of you is naughty,
I'll send him to some girl or boy in America to play with."

This dreadful threat made all the toy bears look solemn.  They assured
the King in a chorus of growls that they would be good.  Then the big
Lavender Bear picked up the little Pink Bear, and after tucking it
carefully under one arm, he said, "Goodbye till I come back!" and
waddled along the path that led through the forest.  The Frogman and
Cayke the Cookie Cook also said goodbye to the bears and then followed
after the King, much to the regret of the little Brown Bear, who pulled
the trigger of his gun and popped the cork as a parting salute.




CHAPTER 17

THE MEETING


While the Frogman and his party were advancing from the west, Dorothy
and her party were advancing from the east, and so it happened that on
the following night they all camped at a little hill that was only a
few miles from the wicker castle of Ugu the Shoemaker. But the two
parties did not see one another that night, for one camped on one side
of the hill while the other camped on the opposite side.  But the next
morning, the Frogman thought he would climb the hill and see what was
on top of it, and at the same time Scraps, the Patchwork Girl, also
decided to climb the hill to find if the wicker castle was visible from
its top.  So she stuck her head over an edge just as the Frogman's head
appeared over another edge, and both, being surprised, kept still while
they took a good look at one another.

Scraps recovered from her astonishment first, and bounding upward, she
turned a somersault and landed sitting down and facing the big Frogman,
who slowly advanced and sat opposite her.  "Well met, Stranger!" cried
the Patchwork Girl with a whoop of laughter.  "You are quite the
funniest individual I have seen in all my travels."

"Do you suppose I can be any funnier than you?" asked the Frogman,
gazing at her in wonder.

"I'm not funny to myself, you know," returned Scraps.  "I wish I were.
And perhaps you are so used to your own absurd shape that you do not
laugh whenever you see your reflection in a pool or in a mirror."

"No," said the Frogman gravely, "I do not.  I used to be proud of my
great size and vain of my culture and education, but since I bathed in
the Truth Pond, I sometimes think it is not right that I should be
different from all other frogs."

"Right or wrong," said the Patchwork Girl, "to be different is to be
distinguished.  Now in my case, I'm just like all other Patchwork Girls
because I'm the only one there is.  But tell me, where did you come
from?"

"The Yip Country," said he.

"Is that in the Land of Oz?"

"Of course," replied the Frogman.

"And do you know that your Ruler, Ozma of Oz, has been stolen?"

"I was not aware that I had a Ruler, so of course I couldn't know that
she was stolen."

"Well, you have. All the people of Oz," explained Scraps, "are ruled by
Ozma, whether they know it or not.  And she has been stolen. Aren't you
angry?  Aren't you indignant?  Your Ruler, whom you didn't know you
had, has positively been stolen!"

"That is queer," remarked the Frogman thoughtfully. "Stealing is a
thing practically unknown in Oz, yet this Ozma has been taken, and a
friend of mine has also had her dishpan stolen. With her I have
traveled all the way from the Yip Country in order to recover it."

"I don't see any connection between a Royal Ruler of Oz and a dishpan!"
declared Scraps.

"They've both been stolen, haven't they?"

"True.  But why can't your friend wash her dishes in another dishpan?"
asked Scraps.

"Why can't you use another Royal Ruler?  I suppose you prefer the one
who is lost, and my friend wants her own dishpan, which is made of gold
and studded with diamonds and has magic powers."

"Magic, eh?" exclaimed Scraps. "THERE is a link that connects the two
steals, anyhow, for it seems that all the magic in the Land of Oz was
stolen at the same time, whether it was in the Emerald City of in
Glinda's castle or in the Yip Country.  Seems mighty strange and
mysterious, doesn't it?"

"It used to seem that way to me," admitted the Frogman, "but we have
now discovered who took our dishpan.  It was Ugu the Shoemaker."

"Ugu?  Good gracious!  That's the same magician we think has stolen
Ozma.  We are now on our way to the castle of this Shoemaker."

"So are we," said the Frogman.

"Then follow me, quick!  And let me introduce you to Dorothy and the
other girls and to the Wizard of Oz and all the rest of us."

She sprang up and seized his coatsleeve, dragging him off the hilltop
and down the other side from that whence he had come.  And at the foot
of the hill, the Frogman was astonished to find the three girls and the
Wizard and Button-Bright, who were surrounded by a wooden Sawhorse, a
lean Mule, a square Woozy, and a Cowardly Lion.  A little black dog ran
up and smelled at the Frogman, but couldn't growl at him.

"I've discovered another party that has been robbed," shouted Scraps as
she joined them.  "This is their leader, and they're all going to Ugu's
castle to fight the wicked Shoemaker!"

They regarded the Frogman with much curiosity and interest, and finding
all eyes fixed upon him, the newcomer arranged his necktie and smoothed
his beautiful vest and swung his gold-headed cane like a regular dandy.
The big spectacles over his eyes quite altered his froglike countenance
and gave him a learned and impressive look.  Used as she was to seeing
strange creatures in the Land of Oz, Dorothy was amazed at discovering
the Frogman.  So were all her companions. Toto wanted to growl at him,
but couldn't, and he didn't dare bark.  The Sawhorse snorted rather
contemptuously, but the Lion whispered to the wooden steed, "Bear with
this strange creature, my friend, and remember he is no more
extraordinary than you are.  Indeed, it is more natural for a frog to
be big than for a Sawhorse to be alive."

On being questioned, the Frogman told them the whole story of the loss
of Cayke's highly prized dishpan and their adventures in search of it.
When he came to tell of the Lavender Bear King and of the Little Pink
Bear who could tell anything you wanted to know, his hearers became
eager to see such interesting animals.

"It will be best," said the Wizard, "to unite our two parties and share
our fortunes together, for we are all bound on the same errand, and as
one band we may more easily defy this shoemaker magician than if
separate. Let us be allies."

"I will ask my friends about that," replied the Frogman, and he climbed
over the hill to find Cayke and the toy bears.  The Patchwork Girl
accompanied him, and when they came upon the Cookie Cook and the
Lavender Bear and the Pink Bear, it was hard to tell which of the lot
was the most surprised.

"Mercy me!" cried Cayke, addressing the Patchwork Girl.  "However did
you come alive?"

Scraps stared at the bears.

"Mercy me!" she echoed, "You are stuffed, as I am, with cotton, and you
appear to be living.  That makes me feel ashamed, for I have prided
myself on being the only live cotton-stuffed person in Oz."

"Perhaps you are," returned the Lavender Bear, "for I am stuffed with
extra-quality curled hair, and so is the Little Pink Bear."

"You have relieved my mind of a great anxiety," declared the Patchwork
Girl, now speaking more cheerfully.  "The Scarecrow is stuffed with
straw and you with hair, so I am still the Original and Only
Cotton-Stuffed!"

"I hope I am too polite to criticize cotton as compared with curled
hair," said the King, "especially as you seem satisfied with it."

Then the Frogman told of his interview with the party from the Emerald
City and added that the Wizard of Oz had invited the bears and Cayke
and himself to travel in company with them to the castle of Ugu the
Shoemaker.  Cayke was much pleased, but the Bear King looked solemn. He
set the Little Pink Bear on his lap and turned the crank in its side
and asked, "Is it safe for us to associate with those people from the
Emerald City?"

And the Pink Bear at once replied,

  "Safe for you and safe for me;
  Perhaps no others safe will be."


"That 'perhaps' need not worry us," said the King, "so let us join the
others and offer them our protection."

Even the Lavender Bear was astonished, however, when on climbing over
the hill he found on the other side the group of queer animals and the
people from the Emerald City.  The bears and Cayke were received very
cordially, although Button-Bright was cross when they wouldn't let him
play with the Little Pink Bear.  The three girls greatly admired the
toy bears, and especially the pink one, which they longed to hold.

"You see," explained the Lavender King in denying them this privilege,
"he's a very valuable bear, because his magic is a correct guide on all
occasions, and especially if one is in difficulties.  It was the Pink
Bear who told us that Ugu the Shoemaker had stolen the Cookie Cook's
dishpan."

"And the King's magic is just as wonderful," added Cayke, "because it
showed us the Magician himself."

"What did he look like?" inquired Dorothy.

"He was dreadful!"

"He was sitting at a table and examining an immense Book which had
three golden clasps," remarked the King.

"Why, that must have been Glinda's Great Book of Records!" exclaimed
Dorothy.  "If it is, it proves that Ugu the Shoemaker stole Ozma, and
with her all the magic in the Emerald City."

"And my dishpan," said Cayke.

And the Wizard added, "It also proves that he is following our
adventures in the Book of Records, and therefore knows that we are
seeking him and that we are determined to find him and reach Ozma at
all hazards."

"If we can," added the Woozy, but everybody frowned at him.

The Wizard's statement was so true that the faces around him were very
serious until the Patchwork Girl broke into a peal of laughter.

"Wouldn't it be a rich joke if he made prisoners of us, too?" she said.

"No one but a crazy Patchwork Girl would consider that a joke,"
grumbled Button-Bright.

And then the Lavender Bear King asked, "Would you like to see this
magical shoemaker?"

"Wouldn't he know it?" Dorothy inquired.

"No, I think not."

Then the King waved his metal wand and before them appeared a room in
the wicker castle of Ugu.  On the wall of the room hung Ozma's Magic
Picture, and seated before it was the Magician.  They could see the
Picture as well as he could, because it faced them, and in the Picture
was the hillside where they were now sitting, all their forms being
reproduced in miniature.  And curiously enough, within the scene of the
Picture was the scene they were now beholding, so they knew that the
Magician was at this moment watching them in the Picture, and also that
he saw himself and the room he was in become visible to the people on
the hillside.  Therefore he knew very well that they were watching him
while he was watching them.

In proof of this, Ugu sprang from his seat and turned a scowling face
in their direction; but now he could not see the travelers who were
seeking him, although they could still see him.  His actions were so
distinct, indeed, that it seemed he was actually before them.  "It is
only a ghost," said the Bear King.  "It isn't real at all except that
it shows us Ugu just as he looks and tells us truly just what he is
doing."

"I don't see anything of my lost growl, though," said Toto as if to
himself.

Then the vision faded away, and they could see nothing but the grass
and trees and bushes around them.




CHAPTER 18

THE CONFERENCE


"Now then," said the Wizard, "let us talk this matter over and decide
what to do when we get to Ugu's wicker castle.  There can be no doubt
that the Shoemaker is a powerful Magician, and his powers have been
increased a hundredfold since he secured the Great Book of Records, the
Magic Picture, all of Glinda's recipes for sorcery, and my own black
bag, which was full of tools of wizardry.  The man who could rob us of
those things and the man with all their powers at his command is one
who may prove somewhat difficult to conquer, therefore we should plan
our actions well before we venture too near to his castle."

"I didn't see Ozma in the Magic Picture," said Trot. "What do you
suppose Ugu has done with her?"

"Couldn't the Little Pink Bear tell us what he did with Ozma?" asked
Button-Bright.

"To be sure," replied the Lavender King.  "I'll ask him."  So he turned
the crank in the Little Pink Bear's side and inquired, "Did Ugu the
Shoemaker steal Ozma of Oz?"

"Yes," answered the Little Pink Bear.

"Then what did he do with her?" asked the King.

"Shut her up in a dark place," answered the Little Pink Bear.

"Oh, that must be a dungeon cell!" cried Dorothy, horrified.  "How
dreadful!"

"Well, we must get her out of it," said the Wizard. "That is what we
came for, and of course we must rescue Ozma.  But how?"

Each one looked at some other one for an answer, and all shook their
heads in a grave and dismal manner.  All but Scraps, who danced around
them gleefully.  "You're afraid," said the Patchwork Girl, "because so
many things can hurt your meat bodies. Why don't you give it up and go
home?  How can you fight a great magician when you have nothing to
fight with?"

Dorothy looked at her reflectively.

"Scraps," said she, "you know that Ugu couldn't hurt you a bit,
whatever he did, nor could he hurt ME, 'cause I wear the Gnome King's
Magic Belt.  S'pose just we two go on together and leave the others
here to wait for us."

"No, no!" said the Wizard positively. "That won't do at all.  Ozma is
more powerful than either of you, yet she could not defeat the wicked
Ugu, who has shut her up in a dungeon.  We must go to the Shoemaker in
one mighty band, for only in union is there strength."

"That is excellent advice," said the Lavender Bear approvingly.

"But what can we do when we get to Ugu?" inquired the Cookie Cook
anxiously.

"Do not expect a prompt answer to that important question," replied the
Wizard, "for we must first plan our line of conduct.  Ugu knows, of
course, that we are after him, for he has seen our approach in the
Magic Picture, and he has read of all we have done up to the present
moment in the Great Book of Records.  Therefore we cannot expect to
take him by surprise."

"Don't you suppose Ugu would listen to reason?" asked Betsy.  "If we
explained to him how wicked he has been, don't you think he'd let poor
Ozma go?"

"And give me back my dishpan?" added the Cookie Cook eagerly.

"Yes, yes, won't he say he's sorry and get on his knees and beg our
pardon?" cried Scraps, turning a flip-flop to show her scorn of the
suggestion.  "When Ugu the Shoemaker does that, please knock at the
front door and let me know."

The Wizard sighed and rubbed his bald head with a puzzled air.  "I'm
quite sure Ugu will not be polite to us," said he, "so we must conquer
this cruel magician by force, much as we dislike to be rude to anyone.
But none of you has yet suggested a way to do that.  Couldn't the
Little Pink Bear tell us how?" he asked, turning to the Bear King.

"No, for that is something that is GOING to happen," replied the
Lavender Bear.  "He can only tell us what already HAS happened."

Again, they were grave and thoughtful.  But after a time, Betsy said in
a hesitating voice, "Hank is a great fighter.  Perhaps HE could conquer
the magician."

The Mule turned his head to look reproachfully at his old friend, the
young girl.  "Who can fight against magic?" he asked.

"The Cowardly Lion could," said Dorothy.

The Lion, who was lying with his front legs spread out, his chin on his
paws, raised his shaggy head.  "I can fight when I'm not afraid," said
he calmly, "but the mere mention of a fight sets me to trembling."

"Ugu's magic couldn't hurt the Sawhorse," suggested tiny Trot.

"And the Sawhorse couldn't hurt the Magician," declared that wooden
animal.

"For my part," said Toto, "I am helpless, having lost my growl."

"Then," said Cayke the Cookie Cook, "we must depend upon the Frogman.
His marvelous wisdom will surely inform him how to conquer the wicked
Magician and restore to me my dishpan."

All eyes were now turned questioningly upon the Frogman.  Finding
himself the center of observation, he swung his gold-headed cane,
adjusted his big spectacles, and after swelling out his chest, sighed
and said in a modest tone of voice:

"Respect for truth obliges me to confess that Cayke is mistaken in
regard to my superior wisdom.  I am not very wise.  Neither have I had
any practical experience in conquering magicians.  But let us consider
this case. What is Ugu, and what is a magician?  Ugu is a renegade
shoemaker, and a magician is an ordinary man who, having learned how to
do magical tricks, considers himself above his fellows.  In this case,
the Shoemaker has been naughty enough to steal a lot of magical tools
and things that did not belong to him, and he is more wicked to steal
than to be a magician.  Yet with all the arts at his command, Ugu is
still a man, and surely there are ways in which a man may be conquered.
How, do you say, how?  Allow me to state that I don't know.  In my
judgment, we cannot decide how best to act until we get to Ugu's castle.
So let us go to it and take a look at it. After that, we may discover
an idea that will guide us to victory."

"That may not be a wise speech, but it sounds good," said Dorothy
approvingly.  "Ugu the Shoemaker is not only a common man, but he's a
wicked man and a cruel man and deserves to be conquered.  We mustn't
have any mercy on him till Ozma is set free.  So let's go to his castle
as the Frogman says and see what the place looks like."

No one offered any objection to this plan, and so it was adopted. They
broke camp and were about to start on the journey to Ugu's castle when
they discovered that Button-Bright was lost again.  The girls and the
Wizard shouted his name, and the Lion roared and the Donkey brayed and
the Frogman croaked and the Big Lavender Bear growled (to the envy of
Toto, who couldn't growl but barked his loudest), yet none of them
could make Button-Bright hear.  So after vainly searching for the boy a
full hour, they formed a procession and proceeded in the direction of
the wicker castle of Ugu the Shoemaker.

"Button-Bright's always getting lost," said Dorothy.  "And if he wasn't
always getting found again, I'd prob'ly worry.  He may have gone ahead
of us, and he may have gone back, but wherever he is, we'll find him
sometime and somewhere, I'm almost sure."




CHAPTER 19

UGU THE SHOEMAKER


A curious thing about Ugu the Shoemaker was that he didn't suspect in
the least that he was wicked.  He wanted to be powerful and great, and
he hoped to make himself master of all the Land of Oz that he might
compel everyone in that fairy country to obey him, His ambition blinded
him to the rights of others, and he imagined anyone else would act just
as he did if anyone else happened to be as clever as himself.

When he inhabited his little shoemaking shop in the City of Herku, he
had been discontented, for a shoemaker is not looked upon with high
respect, and Ugu knew that his ancestors had been famous magicians for
many centuries past and therefore his family was above the ordinary.
Even his father practiced magic when Ugu was a boy, but his father had
wandered away from Herku and had never come back again.  So when Ugu
grew up, he was forced to make shoes for a living, knowing nothing of
the magic of his forefathers. But one day, in searching through the
attic of his house, he  discovered all the books of magical recipes and
many magical instruments which had formerly been in use in his family.
From that day, he stopped making shoes and began to study magic.
Finally, he aspired to become the greatest magician in Oz, and for days
and weeks and months he thought on a plan to render all the other
sorcerers and wizards, as well as those with fairy powers, helpless to
oppose him.

From the books of his ancestors, he learned the following facts:

(1) That Ozma of Oz was the fairy ruler of the Emerald City and the
Land of Oz and that she could not be destroyed by any magic ever
devised.  Also, by means of her Magic Picture she would be able to
discover anyone who approached her royal palace with the idea of
conquering it.

(2) That Glinda the Good was the most powerful Sorceress in Oz, among
her other magical possessions being the Great Book of Records, which
told her all that happened anywhere in the world.  This Book of Records
was very dangerous to Ugu's plans, and Glinda was in the service of
Ozma and would use her arts of sorcery to protect the girl Ruler.

(3) That the Wizard of Oz, who lived in Ozma's palace, had been taught
much powerful magic by Glinda and had a bag of magic tools with which
he might be able to conquer the Shoemaker.

(4) That there existed in Oz--in the Yip Country--a jeweled dishpan
made of gold, which dishpan would grow large enough for a man to sit
inside it.  Then, when he grasped both the golden handles, the dishpan
would transport him in an instant to any place he wished to go within
the borders of the Land of Oz.

No one now living except Ugu knew of the powers of the Magic Dishpan,
so after long study, the shoemaker decided that if he could manage to
secure the dishpan, he could by its means rob Ozma and Glinda and the
Wizard of Oz of all their magic, thus becoming himself the most
powerful person in all the land.  His first act was to go away from the
City of Herku and build for himself the Wicker Castle in the hills.
Here he carried his books and instruments of magic, and here for a full
year he diligently practiced all the magical arts learned from his
ancestors.  At the end of that time, he could do a good many wonderful
things.

Then, when all his preparations were made, he set out for the Yip
Country, and climbing the steep mountain at night he entered the house
of Cayke the Cookie Cook and stole her diamond-studded gold dishpan
while all the Yips were asleep, Taking his prize outside, he set the
pan upon the ground and uttered the required magic word.  Instantly,
the dishpan grew as large as a big washtub, and Ugu seated himself in
it and grasped the two handles.  Then he wished himself in the great
drawing room of Glinda the Good.

He was there in a flash.  First he took the Great Book of Records and
put it in the dishpan.  Then he went to Glinda's laboratory and took
all her rare chemical compounds and her instruments of sorcery, placing
these also in the dishpan, which he caused to grow large enough to hold
them.  Next he seated himself amongst the treasures he had stolen and
wished himself in the room in Ozma's palace which the Wizard occupied
and where he kept his bag of magic tools.  This bag Ugu added to his
plunder and then wished himself in the apartments of Ozma.

Here he first took the Magic Picture from the wall and then seized all
the other magical things which Ozma possessed.  Having placed these in
the dishpan, he was about to climb in himself when he looked up and saw
Ozma standing beside him.  Her fairy instinct had warned her that
danger was threatening her, so the beautiful girl Ruler rose from her
couch and leaving her bedchamber at once confronted the thief.

Ugu had to think quickly, for he realized that if he permitted Ozma to
rouse the inmates of her palace, all his plans and his present
successes were likely to come to naught.  So he threw a scarf over the
girl's head so she could not scream, and pushed her into the dishpan
and tied her fast so she could not move.  Then he climbed in beside her
and wished himself in his own wicker castle.  The Magic Dishpan was
there in an instant, with all its contents, and Ugu rubbed his hands
together in triumphant joy as he realized that he now possessed all the
important magic in the Land of Oz and could force all the inhabitants
of that fairyland to do as he willed.

So quickly had his journey been accomplished that before daylight the
robber magician had locked Ozma in a room, making her a prisoner, and
had unpacked and arranged all his stolen goods.  The next day he placed
the Book of Records on his table and hung the Magic Picture on his wall
and put away in his cupboards and drawers all the elixirs and magic
compounds he had stolen.  The magical instruments he polished and
arranged, and this was fascinating work and made him very happy.

By turns the imprisoned Ruler wept and scolded the Shoemaker, haughtily
threatening him with dire punishment for the wicked deeds he had done.
Ugu became somewhat afraid of his fairy prisoner, in spite of the fact
that he believed he had robbed her of all her powers; so he performed
an enchantment that quickly disposed of her and placed her out of his
sight and hearing. After that, being occupied with other things, he
soon forgot her.

But now, when he looked into the Magic Picture and read the Great Book
of Records, the Shoemaker learned that his wickedness was not to go
unchallenged.  Two important expeditions had set out to find him and
force him to give up his stolen property.  One was the party headed by
the Wizard and Dorothy, while the other consisted of Cayke and the
Frogman.  Others were also searching, but not in the right places.
These two groups, however, were headed straight for the wicker castle,
and so Ugu began to plan how best to meet them and to defeat their
efforts to conquer him.




CHAPTER 20

MORE SURPRISES


All that first day after the union of the two parties, our friends
marched steadily toward the wicker castle of Ugu the Shoemaker.  When
night came, they camped in a little grove and passed a pleasant evening
together, although some of them were worried because Button-Bright was
still lost.

"Perhaps," said Toto as the animals lay grouped together for the night,
"this Shoemaker who stole my growl and who stole Ozma has also stolen
Button-Bright."

"How do you know that the Shoemaker stole your growl?" demanded the
Woozy.

"He has stolen about everything else of value in Oz, hasn't he?"
replied the dog.

"He has stolen everything he wants, perhaps," agreed the Lion, "but
what could anyone want with your growl?"

"Well," said the dog, wagging his tail slowly, "my recollection is that
it was a wonderful growl, soft and low and--and--"

"And ragged at the edges," said the Sawhorse.

"So," continued Toto, "if that magician hadn't any growl of his own, he
might have wanted mine and stolen it."

"And if he has, he will soon wish he hadn't," remarked the Mule. "Also,
if he has stolen Button-Bright, he will be sorry."

"Don't you like Button-Bright, then?" asked the Lion in surprise.

"It isn't a question of liking him," replied the Mule.  "It's a
question of watching him and looking after him.  Any boy who causes his
friends so much worry isn't worth having around. I never get lost."

"If you did," said Toto, "no one would worry a bit.  I think
Button-Bright is a very lucky boy because he always gets found."

"See here," said the Lion, "this chatter is keeping us all awake, and
tomorrow is likely to be a busy day.  Go to sleep and forget your
quarrels."

"Friend Lion," retorted the dog, "if I hadn't lost my growl, you would
hear it now.  I have as much right to talk as you have to sleep."

The Lion sighed.

"If only you had lost your voice when you lost your growl," said he,
"you would be a more agreeable companion."

But they quieted down after that, and soon the entire camp was wrapped
in slumber.  Next morning they made an early start, but had hardly
proceeded on their way an hour when, on climbing a slight elevation,
they beheld in the distance a low mountain on top of which stood Ugu's
wicker castle.  It was a good-sized building and rather pretty because
the sides, roofs and domes were all of wicker, closely woven as it is
in fine baskets.

"I wonder if it is strong?" said Dorothy musingly as she eyed the queer
castle.

"I suppose it is, since a magician built it," answered the Wizard.
"With magic to protect it, even a paper castle might be as strong as if
made of stone.  This Ugu must be a man of ideas, because he does things
in a different way from other people."

"Yes.  No one else would steal our dear Ozma," sighed tiny Trot.

"I wonder if Ozma is there?" said Betsy, indicating the castle with a
nod of her head.

"Where else could she be?" asked Scraps.

"Suppose we ask the Pink Bear," suggested Dorothy.

That seemed a good idea, so they halted the procession, and the Bear
King held the little Pink Bear on his lap and turned the crank in its
side and asked, "Where is Ozma of Oz?"

And the little Pink Bear answered, "She is in a hole in the ground a
half mile away at your left."

"Good gracious!" cried Dorothy.

"Then she is not in Ugu's castle at all."

"It is lucky we asked that question," said the Wizard, "for if we can
find Ozma and rescue her, there will be no need for us to fight that
wicked and dangerous magician."

"Indeed!" said Cayke.   "Then what about my dishpan?"

The Wizard looked puzzled at her tone of remonstrance, so she added,
"Didn't you people from the Emerald City promise that we would all
stick together, and that you would help me to get my dishpan if I would
help you to get your Ozma?  And didn't I bring to you the little Pink
Bear, which has told you where Ozma is hidden?"

"She's right," said Dorothy to the Wizard.

"We must do as we agreed."

"Well, first of all, let us go and rescue Ozma," proposed the Wizard.
"Then our beloved Ruler may be able to advise us how to conquer Ugu the
Shoemaker."  So they turned to the left and marched for half a mile
until they came to a small but deep hole in the ground.  At once, all
rushed to the brim to peer into the hole, but instead of finding there
Princess Ozma of Oz, all that they saw was Button-Bright, who was lying
asleep on the bottom.

Their cries soon wakened the boy, who sat up and rubbed his eyes. When
he recognized his friends, he smiled sweetly, saying, "Found again!"

"Where is Ozma?" inquired Dorothy anxiously.

"I don't know," answered Button-Bright from the depths of the hole. "I
got lost yesterday, as you may remember, and in the night while I was
wandering around in the moonlight trying to find my way back to you, I
suddenly fell into this hole."

"And wasn't Ozma in it then?"

"There was no one in it but me, and I was sorry it wasn't entirely
empty.  The sides are so steep I can't climb out, so there was nothing
to be done but sleep until someone found me.  Thank you for coming. If
you'll please let down a rope, I'll empty this hole in a hurry."

"How strange!" said Dorothy, greatly disappointed.

"It's evident the Pink Bear didn't tell the truth."

"He never makes a mistake," declared the Lavender Bear King in a tone
that showed his feelings were hurt.  And then he turned the crank of
the little Pink Bear again and asked, "Is this the hole that Ozma of Oz
is in?"

"Yes," answered the Pink Bear.

"That settles it," said the King positively.  "Your Ozma is in this
hole in the ground."

"Don't be silly," returned Dorothy impatiently. "Even your beady eyes
can see there is no one in the hole but Button-Bright."

"Perhaps Button-Bright is Ozma," suggested the King.

"And perhaps he isn't!  Ozma is a girl, and Button-Bright is a boy."

"Your Pink Bear must be out of order," said the Wizard, "for, this time
at least, his machinery has caused him to make an untrue statement."

The Bear King was so angry at this remark that he turned away, holding
the Pink Bear in his paws, and refused to discuss the matter in any
further way.

"At any rate," said the Frogman, "the Pink Bear has led us to your boy
friend and so enabled you to rescue him."

Scraps was leaning so far over the hole trying to find Ozma in it that
suddenly she lost her balance and pitched in head foremost.  She fell
upon Button-Bright and tumbled him over, but he was not hurt by her
soft, stuffed body and only laughed at the mishap.  The Wizard buckled
some straps together and let one end of them down into the hole, and
soon both Scraps and the boy had climbed up and were standing safely
beside the others.  They looked once more for Ozma, but the hole was
now absolutely vacant.  It was a round hole, so from the top they could
plainly see every part of it.  Before they left the place, Dorothy went
to the Bear King and said, "I'm sorry we couldn't believe what the
little Pink Bear said, 'cause we don't want to make you feel bad by
doubting him.  There must be a mistake, somewhere, and we prob'ly don't
understand just what the little Pink Bear said.  Will you let me ask
him one more question?"

The Lavender Bear King was a good-natured bear, considering how he was
made and stuffed and jointed, so he accepted Dorothy's apology and
turned the crank and allowed the little girl to question his wee Pink
Bear.

"Is Ozma REALLY in this hole?" asked Dorothy.

"No," said the little Pink Bear.

This surprised everybody.  Even the Bear King was now puzzled by the
contradictory statements of his oracle.

"Where IS she?" asked the King.

"Here, among you," answered the little Pink Bear.

"Well," said Dorothy, "this beats me entirely!  I guess the little Pink
Bear has gone crazy."

"Perhaps," called Scraps, who was rapidly turning "cartwheels" all
around the perplexed group, "Ozma is invisible."

"Of course!" cried Betsy. "That would account for it."

"Well, I've noticed that people can speak, even when they've been made
invisible," said the Wizard.  And then he looked all around him and
said in a solemn voice, "Ozma, are you here?"

There was no reply. Dorothy asked the question, too, and so did
Button-Bright and Trot and Betsy, but none received any reply at all.

"It's strange, it's terrible strange!" muttered Cayke the Cookie Cook.
"I was sure that the little Pink Bear always tells the truth."

"I still believe in his honesty," said the Frogman, and this tribute so
pleased the Bear King that he gave these last speakers grateful looks,
but still gazed sourly on the others.

"Come to think of it," remarked the Wizard, "Ozma couldn't be
invisible, for she is a fairy, and fairies cannot be made invisible
against their will.  Of course, she could be imprisoned by the magician
or enchanted or transformed, in spite of her fairy powers, but Ugu
could not render her invisible by any magic at his command."

"I wonder if she's been transformed into Button-Bright?" said Dorothy
nervously.  Then she looked steadily at the boy and asked, "Are you
Ozma?  Tell me truly!"

Button-Bright laughed.

"You're getting rattled, Dorothy," he replied. "Nothing ever enchants
ME.  If I were Ozma, do you think I'd have tumbled into that hole?"

"Anyhow," said the Wizard, "Ozma would never try to deceive her friends
or prevent them from recognizing her in whatever form she happened to
be.  The puzzle is still a puzzle, so let us go on to the wicker castle
and question the magician himself.  Since it was he who stole our Ozma,
Ugu is the one who must tell us where to find her."




CHAPTER 21

MAGIC AGAINST MAGIC


The Wizard's advice was good, so again they started in the direction of
the low mountain on the crest of which the wicker castle had been
built.  They had been gradually advancing uphill, so now the elevation
seemed to them more like a round knoll than a mountaintop.  However,
the sides of the knoll were sloping and covered with green grass, so
there was a stiff climb before them yet.

Undaunted, they plodded on and had almost reached the knoll when they
suddenly observed that it was surrounded by a circle of flame.  At
first, the flames barely rose above the ground, but presently they grew
higher and higher until a circle of flaming tongues of fire taller than
any of their heads quite surrounded the hill on which the wicker castle
stood.  When they approached the flames, the heat was so intense that
it drove them back again.

"This will never do for me!" exclaimed the Patchwork Girl.  "I catch
fire very easily."

"It won't do for me either," grumbled the Sawhorse, prancing to the
rear.

"I also strongly object to fire," said the Bear King, following the
Sawhorse to a safe distance and hugging the little Pink Bear with his
paws.

"I suppose the foolish Shoemaker imagines these blazes will stop us,"
remarked the Wizard with a smile of scorn for Ugu.  "But I am able to
inform you that this is merely a simple magic trick which the robber
stole from Glinda the Good, and by good fortune I know how to destroy
these flames as well as how to produce them.  Will some one of you
kindly give me a match?"

You may be sure the girls carried no matches, nor did the Frogman or
any of the animals.  But Button-Bright, after searching carefully
through his pockets, which contained all sorts of useful and useless
things, finally produced a match and handed it to the Wizard, who tied
it to the end of a branch which he tore from a small tree growing near
them.  Then the little Wizard carefully lighted the match, and running
forward thrust it into the nearest flame.  Instantly, the circle of
fire began to die away, and soon vanished completely leaving the way
clear for them to proceed.

"That was funny!" laughed Button-Bright.

"Yes," agreed the Wizard, "it seems odd that a little match could
destroy such a great circle of fire, but when Glinda invented this
trick, she believed no one would ever think of a match being a remedy
for fire.  I suppose even Ugu doesn't know how we managed to quench the
flames of his barrier, for only Glinda and I know the secret. Glinda's
Book of Magic which Ugu stole told how to make the flames, but not how
to put them out."

They now formed in marching order and proceeded to advance up the slope
of the hill, but had not gone far when before them rose a wall of
steel, the surface of which was thickly covered with sharp, gleaming
points resembling daggers.  The wall completely surrounded the wicker
castle, and its sharp points prevented anyone from climbing it.  Even
the Patchwork Girl might be ripped to pieces if she dared attempt it.
"Ah!" exclaimed the Wizard cheerfully, "Ugu is now using one of my own
tricks against me.  But this is more serious than the Barrier of Fire,
because the only way to destroy the wall is to get on the other side of
it."

"How can that be done?" asked Dorothy.

The Wizard looked thoughtfully around his little party, and his face
grew troubled.  "It's a pretty high wall," he sadly remarked.   "I'm
pretty sure the Cowardly Lion could not leap over it."

"I'm sure of that, too!" said the Lion with a shudder of fear.  "If I
foolishly tried such a leap, I would be caught on those dreadful
spikes."

"I think I could do it, sir," said the Frogman with a bow to the
Wizard.  "It is an uphill jump as well as being a high jump, but I'm
considered something of a jumper by my friends in the Yip Country, and
I believe a good, strong leap will carry me to the other side."

"I'm sure it would," agreed the Cookie Cook.

"Leaping, you know, is a froglike accomplishment," continued the
Frogman modestly, "but please tell me what I am to do when I reach the
other side of the wall."

"You're a brave creature," said the Wizard admiringly.  "Has anyone a
pin?"

Betsy had one, which she gave him.  "All you need do," said the Wizard
to the Frogman, giving him the pin, "is to stick this into the other
side of the wall."

"But the wall is of steel!" exclaimed the big frog.

"I know.  At least, it SEEMS to be steel, but do as I tell you.  Stick
the pin into the wall, and it will disappear."

The Frogman took off his handsome coat and carefully folded it and laid
it on the grass.  Then he removed his hat and laid it together with his
gold-headed cane beside the coat.  He then went back a way and made
three powerful leaps in rapid succession.  The first two leaps took him
to the wall, and the third leap carried him well over it, to the
amazement of all.  For a short time, he disappeared from their view,
but when he had obeyed the Wizard's injunction and had thrust the pin
into the wall, the huge barrier vanished and showed them the form of
the Frogman, who now went to where his coat lay and put it on again.

"We thank you very much," said the delighted Wizard.

"That was the most wonderful leap I ever saw, and it has saved us from
defeat by our enemy.  Let us now hurry on to the castle before Ugu the
Shoemaker thinks up some other means to stop us."

"We must have surprised him so far," declared Dorothy.

"Yes indeed.  The fellow knows a lot of magic--all of our tricks and
some of his own," replied the Wizard.  "So if he is half as clever as
he ought to be, we shall have trouble with him yet."

He had scarcely spoken these words when out from the gates of the
wicker castle marched a regiment of soldiers, clad in gay uniforms and
all bearing long, pointed spears and sharp battle axes.  These soldiers
were girls, and the uniforms were short skirts of yellow and black
satin, golden shoes, bands of gold across their foreheads and necklaces
of glittering jewels.  Their jackets were scarlet, braided with silver
cords.  There were hundreds of these girl-soldiers, and they were more
terrible than beautiful, being strong and fierce in appearance.  They
formed a circle all around the castle and faced outward, their spears
pointed toward the invaders, and their battle axes held over their
shoulders, ready to strike.  Of course, our friends halted at once, for
they had not expected this dreadful array of soldiery.  The Wizard
seemed puzzled, and his companions exchanged discouraged looks.

"I'd no idea Ugu had such an army as that," said Dorothy.  "The castle
doesn't look big enough to hold them all."

"It isn't," declared the Wizard.

"But they all marched out of it."

"They seemed to, but I don't believe it is a real army at all.  If Ugu
the Shoemaker had so many people living with him, I'm sure the Czarover
of Herku would have mentioned the fact to us."

"They're only girls!" laughed Scraps.

"Girls are the fiercest soldiers of all," declared the Frogman.  "They
are more brave than men, and they have better nerves.  That is probably
why the magician uses them for soldiers and has sent them to oppose us."

No one argued this statement, for all were staring hard at the line of
soldiers, which now, having taken a defiant position, remained
motionless.

"Here is a trick of magic new to me," admitted the Wizard after a time.
"I do not believe the army is real, but the spears may be sharp enough
to prick us, nevertheless, so we must be cautious.  Let us take time to
consider how to meet this difficulty."

While they were thinking it over, Scraps danced closer to the line of
girl soldiers.  Her button eyes sometimes saw more than did the natural
eyes of her comrades, and so after staring hard at the magician's army,
she boldly advanced and danced right through the threatening line! On
the other side, she waved her stuffed arms and called out, "Come on,
folks.  The spears can't hurt you." said the Wizard gaily.  "An optical
illusion, as I thought.  Let us all follow the Patchwork Girl."  The
three little girls were somewhat nervous in attempting to brave the
spears and battle axes, but after the others had safely passed the
line, they ventured to follow.  And when all had passed through the
ranks of the girl army, the army itself magically disappeared from view.

All this time our friends had been getting farther up the hill and
nearer to the wicker castle.  Now, continuing their advance, they
expected something else to oppose their way, but to their astonishment
nothing happened, and presently they arrived at the wicker gates, which
stood wide open, and boldly entered the domain of Ugu the Shoemaker.




CHAPTER 22

IN THE WICKER CASTLE


No sooner were the Wizard of Oz and his followers well within the
castle entrance when the big gates swung to with a clang and heavy bars
dropped across them.  They looked at one another uneasily, but no one
cared to speak of the incident.   If they were indeed prisoners in the
wicker castle, it was evident they must find a way to escape, but their
first duty was to attend to the errand on which they had come and seek
the Royal Ozma, whom they believed to be a prisoner of the magician,
and rescue her.

They found they had entered a square courtyard, from which an entrance
led into the main building of the castle.  No person had appeared to
greet them so far, although a gaudy peacock perched upon the wall
cackled with laughter and said in its sharp, shrill voice, "Poor fools!
Poor fools!"

"I hope the peacock is mistaken," remarked the Frogman, but no one else
paid any attention to the bird.  They were a little awed by the
stillness and loneliness of the place.  As they entered the doors of
the castle, which stood invitingly open, these also closed behind them
and huge bolts shot into place.  The animals had all accompanied the
party into the castle because they felt it would be dangerous for them
to separate.  They were forced to follow a zigzag passage, turning this
way and that, until finally they entered a great central hall, circular
in form and with a high dome from which was suspended an enormous
chandelier.

The Wizard went first, and Dorothy, Betsy and Trot followed him, Toto
keeping at the heels of his little mistress.  Then came the Lion, the
Woozy and the Sawhorse, then Cayke the Cookie Cook and Button-Bright,
then the Lavender Bear carrying the Pink Bear, and finally the Frogman
and the Patchwork Girl, with Hank the Mule tagging behind.  So it was
the Wizard who caught the first glimpse of the big, domed hall, but the
others quickly followed and gathered in a wondering group just within
the entrance.

Upon a raised platform at one side was a heavy table on which lay
Glinda's Great Book of Records, but the platform was firmly fastened to
the floor and the table was fastened to the platform and the Book was
chained fast to the table, just as it had been when it was kept in
Glinda's palace.  On the wall over the table hung Ozma's Magic Picture.
On a row of shelves at the opposite side of the hall stood all the
chemicals and essences of magic and all the magical instruments that
had been stolen from Glinda and Ozma and the Wizard, with glass doors
covering the shelves so that no one could get at them.

And in a far corner sat Ugu the Shoemaker, his feet lazily extended,
his skinny hands clasped behind his head.  He was leaning back at his
ease and calmly smoking a long pipe.  Around the magician was a sort of
cage, seemingly made of golden bars set wide apart, and at his feet,
also within the cage, reposed the long-sought diamond-studded dishpan
of Cayke the Cookie Cook.  Princess Ozma of Oz was nowhere to be seen.

"Well, well," said Ugu when the invaders had stood in silence for a
moment, staring about them.  "This visit is an unexpected pleasure, I
assure you.  I knew you were coming, and I know why you are here.  You
are not welcome, for I cannot use any of you to my advantage, but as
you have insisted on coming, I hope you will make the afternoon call as
brief as possible.  It won't take long to transact your business with
me.  You will ask me for Ozma, and my reply will be that you may find
her--if you can."

"Sir," answered the Wizard in a tone of rebuke, "you are a very wicked
and cruel person.  I suppose you imagine, because you have stolen this
poor woman's dishpan and all the best magic in Oz, that you are more
powerful than we are and will be able to triumph over us."

"Yes," said Ugu the Shoemaker, slowly filling his pipe with fresh
tobacco from a silver bowl that stood beside him, "that is exactly what
I imagine.  It will do you no good to demand from me the girl who was
formerly the Ruler of Oz, because I will not tell you where I have
hidden her, and you can't guess in a thousand years.  Neither will I
restore to you any of the magic I have captured.  I am not so foolish.
But bear this in mind: I mean to be the Ruler of Oz myself, hereafter,
so I advise you to be careful how you address your future Monarch."

"Ozma is still Ruler of Oz, wherever you may have hidden her," declared
the Wizard.  "And bear this in mind, miserable Shoemaker: we intend to
find her and to rescue her in time, but our first duty and pleasure
will be to conquer you and then punish you for your misdeeds."

"Very well, go ahead and conquer," said Ugu.  "I'd really like to see
how you can do it."

Now although the little Wizard had spoken so boldly, he had at the
moment no idea how they might conquer the magician.  He had that
morning given the Frogman, at his request, a dose of zosozo from his
bottle, and the Frogman had promised to fight a good fight if it was
necessary, but the Wizard knew that strength alone could not avail
against magical arts.  The toy Bear King seemed to have some pretty
good magic, however, and the Wizard depended to an extent on that. But
something ought to be done right away, and the Wizard didn't know what
it was.

While he considered this perplexing question and the others stood
looking at him as their leader, a queer thing happened.  The floor of
the great circular hall on which they were standing suddenly began to
tip.  Instead of being flat and level, it became a slant, and the slant
grew steeper and steeper until none of the party could manage to stand
upon it.  Presently they all slid down to the wall, which was now under
them, and then it became evident that the whole vast room was slowly
turning upside down!  Only Ugu the Shoemaker, kept in place by the bars
of his golden cage, remained in his former position, and the wicked
magician seemed to enjoy the surprise of his victims immensely.

First they all slid down to the wall back of them, but as the room
continued to turn over, they next slid down the wall and found
themselves at the bottom of the great dome, bumping against the big
chandelier which, like everything else, was now upside down.  The
turning movement now stopped, and the room became stationary.  Looking
far up, they saw Ugu suspended in his cage at the very top, which had
once been the floor.

"Ah," said he, grinning down at them, "the way to conquer is to act,
and he who acts promptly is sure to win.  This makes a very good
prison, from which I am sure you cannot escape.  Please amuse
yourselves in any way you like, but I must beg you to excuse me, as I
have business in another part of my castle."

Saying this, he opened a trap door in the floor of his cage (which was
now over his head) and climbed through it and disappeared from their
view.  The diamond dishpan still remained in the cage, but the bars
kept it from falling down on their heads.

"Well, I declare," said the Patchwork Girl, seizing one of the bars of
the chandelier and swinging from it, "we must peg one for the
Shoemaker, for he has trapped us very cleverly."

"Get off my foot, please," said the Lion to the Sawhorse.

"And oblige me, Mr.  Mule," remarked the Woozy, "by taking your tail
out of my left eye."

"It's rather crowded down here," explained Dorothy, "because the dome
is rounding and we have all slid into the middle of it.  But let us
keep as quiet as possible until we can think what's best to be done."

"Dear, dear!" wailed Cayke, "I wish I had my darling dishpan," and she
held her arms longingly toward it.

"I wish I had the magic on those shelves up there," sighed the Wizard.

"Don't you s'pose we could get to it?" asked Trot anxiously.

"We'd have to fly," laughed the Patchwork Girl.

But the Wizard took the suggestion seriously, and so did the Frogman.
They talked it over and soon planned an attempt to reach the shelves
where the magical instruments were.  First the Frogman lay against the
rounding dome and braced his foot on the stem of the chandelier; then
the Wizard climbed over him and lay on the dome with his feet on the
Frogman's shoulders; the Cookie Cook came next; then Button-Bright
climbed to the woman's shoulders; then Dorothy climbed up and Betsy and
Trot, and finally the Patchwork Girl, and all their lengths made a long
line that reached far up the dome, but not far enough for Scraps to
touch the shelves.

"Wait a minute.  Perhaps I can reach the magic," called the Bear King,
and began scrambling up the bodies of the others.  But when he came to
the Cookie Cook, his soft paws tickled her side so that she squirmed
and upset the whole line.  Down they came, tumbling in a heap against
the animals, and although no one was much hurt, it was a bad mix-up,
and the Frogman, who was at the bottom, almost lost his temper before
he could get on his feet again.

Cayke positively refused to try what she called "the pyramid act"
again, and as the Wizard was now convinced they could not reach the
magic tools in that manner, the attempt was abandoned.  "But SOMETHING
must be done," said the Wizard, and then he turned to the Lavender Bear
and asked, "Cannot Your Majesty's magic help us to escape from here?"

"My magic powers are limited," was the reply. "When I was stuffed, the
fairies stood by and slyly dropped some magic into my stuffing.
Therefore I can do any of the magic that's inside me, but nothing else.
You, however, are a wizard, and a wizard should be able to do anything."

"Your Majesty forgets that my tools of magic have been stolen," said
the Wizard sadly, "and a wizard without tools is as helpless as a
carpenter without a hammer or saw."

"Don't give up," pleaded Button-Bright, "'cause if we can't get out of
this queer prison, we'll all starve to death."

"Not I!" laughed the Patchwork Girl, now standing on top of the
chandelier at the place that was meant to be the bottom of it.

"Don't talk of such dreadful things," said Trot, shuddering.  "We came
here to capture the Shoemaker, didn't we?"

"Yes, and to save Ozma," said Betsy.

"And here we are, captured ourselves, and my darling dishpan up there
in plain sight!" wailed the Cookie Cook, wiping her eyes on the tail of
the Frogman's coat.

"Hush!" called the Lion with a low, deep growl.  "Give the Wizard time
to think."

"He has plenty of time," said Scraps. "What he needs is the Scarecrow's
brains."

After all, it was little Dorothy who came to their rescue, and her
ability to save them was almost as much a surprise to the girl as it
was to her friends.  Dorothy had been secretly testing the powers of
her Magic Belt, which she had once captured from the Nome King, and
experimenting with it in various ways ever since she had started on
this eventful journey.  At different times she had stolen away from the
others of her party and in solitude had tried to find out what the
Magic Belt could do and what it could not do.  There were a lot of
things it could not do, she discovered, but she learned some things
about the Belt which even her girl friends did not suspect she knew.

For one thing, she had remembered that when the Nome King owned it, the
Magic Belt used to perform transformations, and by thinking hard she
had finally recalled the way in which such transformations had been
accomplished.  Better than this, however, was the discovery that the
Magic Belt would grant its wearer one wish a day.  All she need do was
close her right eye and wiggle her left toe and then draw a long breath
and make her wish.  Yesterday she had wished in secret for a box of
caramels, and instantly found the box beside her.  Today she had saved
her daily wish in case she might need it in an emergency, and the time
had now come when she must use the wish to enable her to escape with
her friends from the prison in which Ugu had caught them.

So without telling anyone what she intended to do--for she had only
used the wish once and could not be certain how powerful the Magic Belt
might be--Dorothy closed her right eye and wiggled her left big toe and
drew a long breath and wished with all her might.  The next moment the
room began to revolve again, as slowly as before, and by degrees they
all slid to the side wall and down the wall to the floor--all but
Scraps, who was so astonished that she still clung to the chandelier.
When the big hall was in its proper position again and the others stood
firmly upon the floor of it, they looked far up the dome and saw the
Patchwork girl swinging from the chandelier.

"Good gracious!" cried Dorothy.  "How ever will you get down?"

"Won't the room keep turning?" asked Scraps.

"I hope not.  I believe it has stopped for good," said Princess Dorothy.

"Then stand from under, so you won't get hurt!" shouted the Patchwork
Girl, and as soon as they had obeyed this request, she let go the
chandelier and came tumbling down heels over head and twisting and
turning in a very exciting manner.  Plump!  She fell on the tiled
floor, and they ran to her and rolled her and patted her into shape
again.




CHAPTER 23

THE DEFIANCE OF UGU THE SHOEMAKER


The delay caused by Scraps had prevented anyone from running to the
shelves to secure the magic instruments so badly needed.  Even Cayke
neglected to get her diamond-studded dishpan because she was watching
the Patchwork Girl.  And now the magician had opened his trap door and
appeared in his golden cage again, frowning angrily because his
prisoners had been able to turn their upside-down prison right side up.
"Which of you has dared defy my magic?" he shouted in a terrible voice.

"It was I," answered Dorothy calmly.

"Then I shall destroy you, for you are only an Earth girl and no
fairy," he said, and began to mumble some magic words.

Dorothy now realized that Ugu must be treated as an enemy, so she
advanced toward the corner in which he sat, saying as she went, "I am
not afraid of you, Mr.  Shoemaker, and I think you'll be sorry, pretty
soon, that you're such a bad man.  You can't destroy me, and I won't
destroy you, but I'm going to punish you for your wickedness."

Ugu laughed, a laugh that was not nice to hear, and then he waved his
hand.  Dorothy was halfway across the room when suddenly a wall of
glass rose before her and stopped her progress.  Through the glass she
could see the magician sneering at her because she was a weak little
girl, and this provoked her.  Although the glass wall obliged her to
halt, she instantly pressed both hands to her Magic Belt and cried in a
loud voice, "Ugu the Shoemaker, by the magic virtues of the Magic Belt,
I command you to become a dove!"

The magician instantly realized he was being enchanted, for he could
feel his form changing.  He struggled desperately against the
enchantment, mumbling magic words and making magic passes with his
hands.  And in one way he succeeded in defeating Dorothy's purpose, for
while his form soon changed to that of a gray dove, the dove was of an
enormous size, bigger even than Ugu had been as a man, and this feat he
had been able to accomplish before his powers of magic wholly deserted
him.

And the dove was not gentle, as doves usually are, for Ugu was terribly
enraged at the little girl's success.  His books had told him nothing
of the Nome King's Magic Belt, the Country of the Nomes being outside
the Land of Oz.  He knew, however, that he was likely to be conquered
unless he made a fierce fight, so he spread his wings and rose in the
air and flew directly toward Dorothy.  The Wall of Glass had
disappeared the instant Ugu became transformed.

Dorothy had meant to command the Belt to transform the magician into a
Dove of Peace, but in her excitement she forgot to say more than
"dove," and now Ugu was not a Dove of Peace by any means, but rather a
spiteful Dove of War. His size made his sharp beak and claws very
dangerous, but Dorothy was not afraid when he came darting toward her
with his talons outstretched and his sword-like beak open.  She knew
the Magic Belt would protect its wearer from harm.

But the Frogman did not know that fact and became alarmed at the little
girl's seeming danger.  So he gave a sudden leap and leaped full upon
the back of the great dove.  Then began a desperate struggle.  The dove
was as strong as Ugu had been, and in size it was considerably bigger
than the Frogman.  But the Frogman had eaten the zosozo, and it had
made him fully as strong as Ugu the Dove.  At the first leap he bore
the dove to the floor, but the giant bird got free and began to bite
and claw the Frogman, beating him down with its great wings whenever he
attempted to rise.  The thick, tough skin of the big frog was not
easily damaged, but Dorothy feared for her champion, and by again using
the transformation power of the Magic Belt, she made the dove grow
small until it was no larger than a canary bird.  Ugu had not lost his
knowledge of magic when he lost his shape as a man, and he now realized
it was hopeless to oppose the power of the Magic Belt and knew that his
only hope of escape lay in instant action.  So he quickly flew into the
golden jeweled dishpan he had stolen from Cayke the Cookie Cook, and as
birds can talk as well as beasts or men in the Fairyland of Oz, he
muttered the magic word that was required and wished himself in the
Country of the Quadlings, which was as far away from the wicker castle
as he believed he could get.

Our friends did not know, of course, what Ugu was about to do.  They
saw the dishpan tremble an instant and then disappear, the dove
disappearing with it, and although they waited expectantly for some
minutes for the magician's return, Ugu did not come back again. "Seems
to me," said the Wizard in a cheerful voice, "that we have conquered
the wicked magician more quickly than we expected to."

"Don't say 'we.'  Dorothy did it!" cried the Patchwork Girl, turning
three somersaults in succession and then walking around on her hands.
"Hurrah for Dorothy!"

"I thought you said you did not know how to use the magic of the Nome
King's Belt," said the Wizard to Dorothy.

"I didn't know at that time," she replied, "but afterward I remembered
how the Nome King once used the Magic Belt to enchant people and
transform 'em into ornaments and all sorts of things, so I tried some
enchantments in secret, and after a while I transformed the Sawhorse
into a potato masher and back again, and the Cowardly Lion into a
pussycat and back again, and then I knew the thing would work all
right."

"When did you perform those enchantments?" asked the Wizard, much
surprised.

"One night when all the rest of you were asleep but Scraps, and she had
gone chasing moonbeams."

"Well," remarked the Wizard, "your discovery has certainly saved us a
lot of trouble, and we must all thank the Frogman, too, for making such
a good fight.  The dove's shape had Ugu's evil disposition inside it,
and that made the monster bird dangerous."

The Frogman was looking sad because the bird's talons had torn his
pretty clothes, but he bowed with much dignity at this well-deserved
praise.  Cayke, however, had squatted on the floor and was sobbing
bitterly.  "My precious dishpan is gone!" she wailed. "Gone, just as I
had found it again!"

"Never mind," said Trot, trying to comfort her, "it's sure to be
SOMEWHERE, so we'll cert'nly run across it some day."

"Yes indeed," added Betsy, "now that we have Ozma's Magic Picture, we
can tell just where the Dove went with your dishpan.  They all
approached the Magic Picture, and Dorothy wished it to show the
enchanted form of Ugu the Shoemaker, wherever it might be.  At once
there appeared in the frame of the Picture a scene in the far Quadling
Country, where the Dove was perched disconsolately on the limb of a
tree and the jeweled dishpan lay on the ground just underneath the limb.

"But where is the place?  How far or how near?" asked Cayke anxiously.

"The Book of Records will tell us that," answered the Wizard.  So they
looked in the Great Book and read the following:

"Ugu the Magician, being transformed into a dove by Princess Dorothy of
Oz, has used the magic of the golden dishpan to carry him instantly to
the northeast corner of the Quadling Country."

"Don't worry, Cayke, for the Scarecrow and the Tin Woodman are in that
part of the country looking for Ozma, and they'll surely find your
dishpan."

"Good gracious!" exclaimed Button-Bright.  "We've forgot all about
Ozma.  Let's find out where the magician hid her."

Back to the Magic Picture they trooped, but when they wished to see
Ozma wherever she might be hidden, only a round black spot appeared in
the center of the canvas.  "I don't see how THAT can be Ozma!" said
Dorothy, much puzzled.

"It seems to be the best the Magic Picture can do, however," said the
Wizard, no less surprised.  "If it's an enchantment, looks as if the
magician had transformed Ozma into a chunk of pitch."




CHAPTER 24

THE LITTLE PINK BEAR SPEAKS TRULY


For several minutes they all stood staring at the black spot on the
canvas of the Magic Picture, wondering what it could mean.  "P'r'aps
we'd better ask the little Pink Bear about Ozma," suggested Trot.

"Pshaw!" said Button-Bright. "HE don't know anything."

"He never makes a mistake," declared the King.

"He did once, surely," said Betsy. "But perhaps he wouldn't make a
mistake again."

"He won't have the chance," grumbled the Bear King.

"We might hear what he has to say," said Dorothy.  "It won't do any
harm to ask the Pink Bear where Ozma is."

"I will not have him questioned," declared the King in a surly voice.
"I do not intend to allow my little Pink Bear to be again insulted by
your foolish doubts.  He never makes a mistake."

"Didn't he say Ozma was in that hole in the ground?" asked Betsy.

"He did, and I am certain she was there," replied the Lavender Bear.

Scraps laughed jeeringly, and the others saw there was no use arguing
with the stubborn Bear King, who seemed to have absolute faith in his
Pink Bear.  The Wizard, who knew that magical things can usually be
depended upon and that the little Pink Bear was able to answer
questions by some remarkable power of magic, thought it wise to
apologize to the Lavender Bear for the unbelief of his friends, at the
same time urging the King to consent to question the Pink Bear once
more.  Cayke and the Frogman also pleaded with the big Bear, who
finally agreed, although rather ungraciously, to put the little Bear's
wisdom to the test once more.  So he sat the little one on his knee and
turned the crank, and the Wizard himself asked the questions in a very
respectful tone of voice.  "Where is Ozma?" was his first query.

"Here in this room," answered the little Pink Bear.

They all looked around the room, but of course did not see her.  "In
what part of the room is she?" was the Wizard's next question.

"In Button-Bright's pocket," said the little Pink Bear.

This reply amazed them all, you may be sure, and although the three
girls smiled and Scraps yelled "Hoo-ray!" in derision, the Wizard
turned to consider the matter with grave thoughtfulness.  "In which one
of Button-Bright's pockets is Ozma?" he presently inquired.

"In the left-hand jacket pocket," said the little Pink Bear.

"The pink one has gone crazy!" exclaimed Button-Bright, staring hard at
the little bear on the big bear's knee.

"I am not so sure of that," declared the Wizard. "If Ozma proves to be
really in your pocket, then the little Pink Bear spoke truly when he
said Ozma was in that hole in the ground.  For at that time you were
also in the hole, and after we had pulled you out of it, the little
Pink Bear said Ozma was not in the hole."

"He never makes a mistake," asserted the Bear King stoutly.

"Empty that pocket, Button-Bright, and let's see what's in it,"
requested Dorothy.

So Button-Bright laid the contents of his left jacket pocket on the
table.  These proved to be a peg top, a bunch of string, a small rubber
ball and a golden peach pit.  "What's this?" asked the Wizard, picking
up the peach pit and examining it closely.

"Oh," said the boy, "I saved that to show to the girls, and then forgot
all about it.  It came out of a lonesome peach that I found in the
orchard back yonder, and which I ate while I was lost.  It looks like
gold, and I never saw a peach pit like it before."

"Nor I," said the Wizard, "and that makes it seem suspicious."

All heads were bent over the golden peach pit.  The Wizard turned it
over several times and then took out his pocket knife and pried the pit
open.  As the two halves fell apart, a pink, cloud-like haze came
pouring from the golden peach pit, almost filling the big room, and
from the haze a form took shape and settled beside them.  Then, as the
haze faded away, a sweet voice said, "Thank you, my friends!" and there
before them stood their lovely girl Ruler, Ozma of Oz.

With a cry of delight, Dorothy rushed forward and embraced her. Scraps
turned gleeful flipflops all around the room.  Button-Bright gave a low
whistle of astonishment.  The Frogman took off his tall hat and bowed
low before the beautiful girl who had been freed from her enchantment
in so startling a manner.  For a time, no sound was heard beyond the
low murmur of delight that came from the amazed group, but presently
the growl of the big Lavender Bear grew louder, and he said in a tone
of triumph, "He never makes a mistake!"




CHAPTER 25

OZMA OF OZ


"It's funny," said Toto, standing before his friend the Lion and
wagging his tail, "but I've found my growl at last!  I am positive now
that it was the cruel magician who stole it."

"Let's hear your growl," requested the Lion.

"G-r-r-r-r-r!" said Toto.

"That is fine," declared the big beast.  "It isn't as loud or as deep
as the growl of the big Lavender Bear, but it is a very respectable
growl for a small dog.  Where did you find it, Toto?"

"I was smelling in the corner yonder," said Toto, "when suddenly a
mouse ran out--and I growled."

The others were all busy congratulating Ozma, who was very happy at
being released from the confinement of the golden peach pit, where the
magician had placed her with the notion that she never could be found
or liberated.

"And only to think," cried Dorothy, "that Button-Bright has been
carrying you in his pocket all this time, and we never knew it!"

"The little Pink Bear told you," said the Bear King, "but you wouldn't
believe him."

"Never mind, my dears," said Ozma graciously, "all is well that ends
well, and you couldn't be expected to know I was inside the peach pit.
Indeed, I feared I would remain a captive much longer than I did, for
Ugu is a bold and clever magician, and he had hidden me very securely."

"You were in a fine peach," said Button-Bright, "the best I ever ate."

"The magician was foolish to make the peach so tempting," remarked the
Wizard, "but Ozma would lend beauty to any transformation."

"How did you manage to conquer Ugu the Shoemaker?" inquired the girl
Ruler of Oz.

Dorothy started to tell the story, and Trot helped her, and
Button-Bright wanted to relate it in his own way, and the Wizard tried
to make it clear to Ozma, and Betsy had to remind them of important
things they left out, and all together there was such a chatter that it
was a wonder that Ozma understood any of it.  But she listened
patiently, with a smile on her lovely face at their eagerness, and
presently had gleaned all the details of their adventures.

Ozma thanked the Frogman very earnestly for his assistance, and she
advised Cayke the Cookie Cook to dry her weeping eyes, for she promised
to take her to the Emerald City and see that her cherished dishpan was
restored to her.  Then the beautiful Ruler took a chain of emeralds
from around her own neck and placed it around the neck of the little
Pink Bear.

"Your wise answers to the questions of my friends," said she, "helped
them to rescue me.   Therefore I am deeply grateful to you and to your
noble King."

The bead eyes of the little Pink Bear stared unresponsive to this
praise until the Big Lavender Bear turned the crank in its side, when
it said in its squeaky voice, "I thank Your Majesty."

"For my part," returned the Bear King, "I realize that you were well
worth saving, Miss Ozma, and so I am much pleased that we could be of
service to you.  By means of my Magic Wand I have been creating exact
images of your Emerald City and your Royal Palace, and I must confess
that they are more attractive than any places I have ever seen--not
excepting Bear Center."

"I would like to entertain you in my palace," returned Ozma sweetly,
"and you are welcome to return with me and to make me a long visit, if
your bear subjects can spare you from your own kingdom."

"As for that," answered the King, "my kingdom causes me little worry,
and I often find it somewhat tame and uninteresting.  Therefore I am
glad to accept your kind invitation.  Corporal Waddle may be trusted to
care for my bears in my absence."

"And you'll bring the little Pink Bear?" asked Dorothy eagerly.

"Of course, my dear.  I would not willingly part with him."

They remained in the wicker castle for three days, carefully packing
all the magical things that had been stolen by Ugu and also taking
whatever in the way of magic the shoemaker had inherited from his
ancestors.  "For," said Ozma, "I have forbidden any of my subjects
except Glinda the Good and the Wizard of Oz to practice magical arts,
because they cannot be trusted to do good and not harm.  Therefore Ugu
must never again be permitted to work magic of any sort."

"Well," remarked Dorothy cheerfully, "a dove can't do much in the way
of magic, anyhow, and I'm going to keep Ugu in the form of a dove until
he reforms and becomes a good and honest shoemaker."

When everything was packed and loaded on the backs of the animals, they
set out for the river, taking a more direct route than that by which
Cayke and the Frogman had come.  In this way they avoided the Cities of
Thi and Herku and Bear Center and after a pleasant journey reached the
Winkie River and found a jolly ferryman who had a fine, big boat and
was willing to carry the entire party by water to a place quite near to
the Emerald City.

The river had many windings and many branches, and the journey did not
end in a day, but finally the boat floated into a pretty lake which was
but a short distance from Ozma's home.  Here the jolly ferryman was
rewarded for his labors, and then the entire party set out in a grand
procession to march to the Emerald City.  News that the Royal Ozma had
been found spread quickly throughout the neighborhood, and both sides
of the road soon became lined with loyal subjects of the beautiful and
beloved Ruler.  Therefore Ozma's ears heard little but cheers, and her
eyes beheld little else than waving handkerchiefs and banners during
all the triumphal march from the lake to the city's gates.

And there she met a still greater concourse, for all the inhabitants of
the Emerald City turned out to welcome her return, and all the houses
were decorated with flags and bunting, and never before were the people
so joyous and happy as at this moment when they welcomed home their
girl Ruler.  For she had been lost and was now found again, and surely
that was cause for rejoicing.  Glinda was at the royal palace to meet
the returning party, and the good Sorceress was indeed glad to have her
Great Book of Records returned to her, as well as all the precious
collection of magic instruments and elixirs and chemicals that had been
stolen from her castle.  Cap'n Bill and the Wizard at once hung the
Magic Picture upon the wall of Ozma's boudoir, and the Wizard was so
light-hearted that he did several tricks with the tools in his black
bag to amuse his companions and prove that once again he was a powerful
wizard.

For a whole week there was feasting and merriment and all sorts of
joyous festivities at the palace in honor of Ozma's safe return.  The
Lavender Bear and the little Pink Bear received much attention and were
honored by all, much to the Bear King's satisfaction.  The Frogman
speedily became a favorite at the Emerald City, and the Shaggy Man and
Tik-Tok and Jack Pumpkinhead, who had now returned from their search,
were very polite to the big frog and made him feel quite at home.  Even
the Cookie Cook, because she was quite a stranger and Ozma's guest, was
shown as much deference as if she had been a queen.

"All the same, Your Majesty," said Cayke to Ozma, day after day with
tiresome repetition, "I hope you will soon find my jeweled dishpan, for
never can I be quite happy without it."




CHAPTER 26

DOROTHY FORGIVES


The gray dove which had once been Ugu the Shoemaker sat on its tree in
the far Quadling Country and moped, chirping dismally and brooding over
its misfortunes.  After a time, the Scarecrow and the Tin Woodman came
along and sat beneath the tree, paying no heed to the mutterings of the
gray dove.  The Tin Woodman took a small oilcan from his tin pocket and
carefully oiled his tin joints with it.

While he was thus engaged, the Scarecrow remarked, "I feel much better,
dear comrade, since we found that heap of nice, clean straw and you
stuffed me anew with it."

"And I feel much better now that my joints are oiled," returned the Tin
Woodman with a sigh of pleasure.  "You and I, friend Scarecrow, are
much more easily cared for than those clumsy meat people, who spend
half their time dressing in fine clothes and who must live in splendid
dwellings in order to be contented and happy.  You and I do not eat,
and so we are spared the dreadful bother of getting three meals a day.
Nor do we waste half our lives in sleep, a condition that causes the
meat people to lose all consciousness and become as thoughtless and
helpless as logs of wood."

"You speak truly," responded the Scarecrow, tucking some wisps of straw
into his breast with his padded fingers.  "I often feel sorry for the
meat people, many of whom are my friends.  Even the beasts are happier
than they, for they require less to make them content.  And the birds
are the luckiest creatures of all, for they can fly swiftly where they
will and find a home at any place they care to perch. Their food
consists of seeds and grains they gather from the fields, and their
drink is a sip of water from some running brook.  If I could not be a
Scarecrow or a Tin Woodman, my next choice would be to live as a bird
does."

The gray dove had listened carefully to this speech and seemed to find
comfort in it, for it hushed its moaning.  And just then the Tin
Woodman discovered Cayke's dishpan, which was on the ground quite near
to him.  "Here is a rather pretty utensil," he said, taking it in his
tin hand to examine it, "but I would not care to own it.  Whoever
fashioned it of gold and covered it with diamonds did not add to its
usefulness, nor do I consider it as beautiful as the bright dishpans of
tin one usually sees.  No yellow color is ever so handsome as the
silver sheen of tin," and he turned to look at his tin legs and body
with approval.

"I cannot quite agree with you there," replied the Scarecrow.  "My
straw stuffing has a light yellow color, and it is not only pretty to
look at, but it crunkles most delightfully when I move."

"Let us admit that all colors are good in their proper places," said
the Tin Woodman, who was too kind-hearted to quarrel, "but you must
agree with me that a dishpan that is yellow is unnatural.  What shall
we do with this one, which we have just found?"

"Let us carry it back to the Emerald City," suggested the Scarecrow.
"Some of our friends might like to have it for a foot-bath, and in
using it that way, its golden color and sparkling ornaments would not
injure its usefulness."

So they went away and took the jeweled dishpan with them.  And after
wandering through the country for a day or so longer, they learned the
news that Ozma had been found.  Therefore they straightway returned to
the Emerald City and presented the dishpan to Princess Ozma as a token
of their joy that she had been restored to them.  Ozma promptly gave
the diamond-studded gold dishpan to Cayke the Cookie Cook, who was
delighted at regaining her lost treasure that she danced up and down in
glee and then threw her skinny arms around Ozma's neck and kissed her
gratefully.  Cayke's mission was now successfully accomplished, but she
was having such a good time at the Emerald City that she seemed in no
hurry to go back to the Country of the Yips.

It was several weeks after the dishpan had been restored to the Cookie
Cook when one day, as Dorothy was seated in the royal gardens with Trot
and Betsy beside her, a gray dove came flying down and alighted at the
girl's feet.

"I am Ugu the Shoemaker," said the dove in a soft, mourning voice, "and
I have come to ask you to forgive me for the great wrong I did in
stealing Ozma and the magic that belonged to her and to others."

"Are you sorry, then?" asked Dorothy, looking hard at the bird.

"I am VERY sorry," declared Ugu.  "I've been thinking over my misdeeds
for a long time, for doves have little else to do but think, and I'm
surprised that I was such a wicked man and had so little regard for the
rights of others.  I am now convinced that even had I succeeded in
making myself ruler of all Oz, I should not have been happy, for many
days of quiet thought have shown me that only those things one acquires
honestly are able to render one content."

"I guess that's so," said Trot.

"Anyhow," said Betsy, "the bad man seems truly sorry, and if he has now
become a good and honest man, we ought to forgive him."

"I fear I cannot become a good MAN again," said Ugu, "for the
transformation I am under will always keep me in the form of a dove.
But with the kind forgiveness of my former enemies, I hope to become a
very good dove and highly respected."

"Wait here till I run for my Magic Belt," said Dorothy, "and I'll
transform you back to your reg'lar shape in a jiffy."

"No, don't do that!" pleaded the dove, fluttering its wings in an
excited way.  "I only want your forgiveness.  I don't want to be a man
again.  As Ugu the Shoemaker I was skinny and old and unlovely.  As a
dove I am quite pretty to look at.  As a man I was ambitious and cruel,
while as a dove I can be content with my lot and happy in my simple
life.  I have learned to love the free and independent life of a bird,
and I'd rather not change back."

"Just as you like, Ugu," said Dorothy, resuming her seat.  "Perhaps you
are right, for you're certainly a better dove than you were a man, and
if you should ever backslide an' feel wicked again, you couldn't do
much harm as a gray dove."

"Then you forgive me for all the trouble I caused you?" he asked
earnestly.

"Of course.  Anyone who's sorry just has to be forgiven."

"Thank you," said the gray dove, and flew away again.



THE END

﻿
LITTLE WIZARD STORIES OF OZ




Contents


  The Cowardly Lion and the Hungry Tiger       15

  Little Dorothy and Toto                      39

  Tiktok and the Nome King                     63

  Ozma and the Little Wizard                   87

  Jack Pumpkinhead and the Sawhorse           111

  The Scarecrow and the Tin Woodman           135

[Illustration]




THE COWARDLY LION AND THE HUNGRY TIGER


In the splendid palace of the Emerald City, which is in the center of
the fairy Land of Oz, is a great Throne Room, where Princess Ozma, the
Ruler, for an hour each day sits in a throne of glistening emeralds and
listens to all the troubles of her people, which they are sure to tell
her about. Around Ozma's throne, on such occasions, are grouped all
the important personages of Oz, such as the Scarecrow, Jack Pumpkinhead,
Tiktok the Clockwork Man, the Tin Woodman, the Wizard of Oz, the Shaggy
Man and other famous fairy people. Little Dorothy usually has a seat at
Ozma's feet, and crouched on either side the throne are two enormous
beasts known as the Hungry Tiger and the Cowardly Lion.

[Illustration]

These two beasts are Ozma's chief guardians, but as everyone loves the
beautiful girl Princess there has never been any disturbance in the
great Throne Room, or anything for the guardians to do but look fierce
and solemn and keep quiet until the Royal Audience is over and the
people go away to their homes.

Of course no one would dare be naughty while the huge Lion and Tiger
crouched beside the throne; but the fact is, the people of Oz are very
seldom naughty. So Ozma's big guards are more ornamental than useful,
and no one realizes that better than the beasts themselves.

One day, after everybody had left the Throne Room except the Cowardly
Lion and the Hungry Tiger, the Lion yawned and said to his friend:

"I'm getting tired of this job. No one is afraid of us and no one pays
any attention to us."

"That is true," replied the big Tiger, purring softly. "We might as well
be in the thick jungles where we were born, as trying to protect Ozma
when she needs no protection. And I'm dreadfully hungry all the time."

"You have enough to eat, I'm sure," said the Lion, swaying his tail
slowly back and forth.

"Enough, perhaps; but not the kind of food I long for," answered the
Tiger. "What I'm hungry for is fat babies. I have a great desire to eat
a few fat babies. Then, perhaps, the people of Oz would fear me and I'd
become more important."

[Illustration]

"True," agreed the Lion. "It would stir up quite a rumpus if you ate but
_one_ fat baby. As for myself; my claws are sharp as needles and strong
as crowbars, while my teeth are powerful enough to tear a person to
pieces in a few seconds. If I should spring upon a man and make chop
suey of him, there would be wild excitement in the Emerald City and the
people would fall upon their knees and beg me for mercy. That, in my
opinion, would render me of considerable importance."

"After you had torn the person to pieces, what would you do next?" asked
the Tiger sleepily.

"Then I would roar so loudly it would shake the earth and stalk away to
the jungle to hide myself, before anyone could attack me or kill me for
what I had done."

"I see," nodded the Tiger. "You are really cowardly."

"To be sure. That is why I am named the Cowardly Lion. That is why I
have always been so tame and peaceable. But I'm awfully tired of being
tame," added the Lion, with a sigh, "and it would be fun to raise a row
and show people what a terrible beast I really am."

The Tiger remained silent for several minutes, thinking deeply as he
slowly washed his face with his left paw. Then he said:

"I'm getting old, and it would please me to eat at least one fat baby
before I die. Suppose we surprise these people of Oz and prove our
power. What do you say? We will walk out of here just as usual and the
first baby we meet I'll eat in a jiffy, and the first man or woman you
meet you will tear to pieces. Then we will both run out of the city
gates and gallop across the country and hide in the jungle before anyone
can stop us."

"All right; I'm game," said the Lion, yawning again so that he showed
two rows of dreadfully sharp teeth.

The Tiger got up and stretched his great, sleek body.

"Come on," he said. The Lion stood up and proved he was the larger of
the two, for he was almost as big as a small horse.

Out of the palace they walked, and met no one. They passed through the
beautiful grounds, past fountains and beds of lovely flowers, and met no
one. Then they unlatched a gate and entered a street of the city, and
met no one.

"I wonder how a fat baby will taste," remarked the Tiger, as they
stalked majestically along, side by side.

"I imagine it will taste like nutmegs," said the Lion.

"No," said the Tiger, "I've an idea it will taste like gumdrops."

They turned a corner, but met no one, for the people of the Emerald City
were accustomed to take their naps at this hour of the afternoon.

"I wonder how many pieces I ought to tear a person into," said the Lion,
in a thoughtful voice.

"Sixty would be about right," suggested the Tiger.

[Illustration]

"Would that hurt any more than to tear one into about a dozen pieces?"
inquired the Lion, with a little shudder.

"Who cares whether it hurts or not?" growled the Tiger.

The Lion did not reply. They entered a side street, but met no one.

Suddenly they heard a child crying.

"Aha!" exclaimed the Tiger. "There is my meat."

He rushed around a corner, the Lion following, and came upon a nice fat
baby sitting in the middle of the street and crying as if in great
distress.

"What's the matter?" asked the Tiger, crouching before the baby.

"I--I--I-lost my m-m-mamma!" wailed the baby.

"Why, you poor little thing," said the great beast, softly stroking the
child's head with its paw. "Don't cry, my dear, for mamma can't be far
away and I'll help you to find her."

"Go on," said the Lion, who stood by.

"Go on where?" asked the Tiger, looking up.

"Go on and eat your fat baby."

"Why, you dreadful creature!" said the Tiger reproachfully; "would you
want me to eat a poor little lost baby, that doesn't know where its
mother is?" And the beast gathered the little one into its strong, hairy
arms and tried to comfort it by rocking it gently back and forth.

[Illustration]

The Lion growled low in his throat and seemed very much disappointed;
but at that moment a scream reached their ears and a woman came bounding
out of a house and into the street. Seeing her baby in the embrace of
the monster Tiger the woman screamed again and rushed forward to rescue
it, but in her haste she caught her foot in her skirt and tumbled head
over heels and heels over head, stopping with such a bump that she saw
many stars in the heavens, although it was broad daylight. And there she
lay, in a helpless manner, all tangled up and unable to stir.

With one bound and a roar like thunder the huge Lion was beside her.
With his strong jaws he grasped her dress and raised her into an upright
position.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

"Poor thing! Are you hurt?" he gently asked.

Gasping for breath the woman struggled to free herself and tried to
walk, but she limped badly and tumbled down again.

"My baby!" she said pleadingly.

"The baby is all right; don't worry," replied the Lion; and then he
added: "Keep quiet, now, and I'll carry you back to your house, and the
Hungry Tiger will carry your baby."

The Tiger, who had approached the place with the child in its arms,
asked in astonishment:

"Aren't you going to tear her into sixty pieces?"

[Illustration]

"No, nor into six pieces," answered the Lion indignantly. "I'm not
such a brute as to destroy a poor woman who has hurt herself trying to
save her lost baby. If you are so ferocious and cruel and bloodthirsty,
you may leave me and go away, for I do not care to associate with you."

"That's all right," answered the Tiger. "I'm not cruel--not in the
least--I'm only hungry. But I thought _you_ were cruel."

"Thank heaven I'm respectable," said the Lion, with dignity. He then
raised the woman and with much gentleness carried her into her house,
where he laid her upon a sofa. The Tiger followed with the baby, which
he safely deposited beside its mother. The little one liked the Hungry
Tiger and grasping the enormous beast by both ears the baby kissed the
beast's nose to show he was grateful and happy.

"Thank you very much," said the woman. "I've often heard what good
beasts you are, in spite of your power to do mischief to mankind, and
now I know that the stories are true. I do not think either of you have
ever had an evil thought."

The Hungry Tiger and the Cowardly Lion hung their heads and did not look
into each other's eyes, for both were shamed and humbled. They crept
away and stalked back through the streets until they again entered the
palace grounds, where they retreated to the pretty, comfortable rooms
they occupied at the back of the palace. There they silently crouched in
their usual corners to think over their adventure.

[Illustration]

After a while the Tiger said sleepily:

"I don't believe fat babies taste like gumdrops. I'm quite sure they
have the flavor of raspberry tarts. My, how hungry I am for fat babies!"

The Lion grunted disdainfully.

"You're a humbug," said he.

"Am I?" retorted the Tiger, with a sneer. "Tell me, then, into how many
pieces you usually tear your victims, my bold Lion?"

The Lion impatiently thumped the floor with his tail.

"To tear anyone into pieces would soil my claws and blunt my teeth," he
said. "I'm glad I didn't muss myself up this afternoon by hurting that
poor mother."

The Tiger looked at him steadily and then yawned a wide, wide yawn.

"You're a coward," he remarked.

"Well," said the Lion, "it's better to be a coward than to do wrong."

"To be sure," answered the other. "And that reminds me that I nearly
lost my own reputation. For, had I eaten that fat baby I would not now
be the Hungry Tiger. It's better to go hungry, seems to me, than to be
cruel to a little child."

And then they dropped their heads on their paws and went to sleep.

[Illustration]




LITTLE DOROTHY AND TOTO


Dorothy was a little Kansas girl who once accidentally found the
beautiful Land of Oz and was invited to live there always. Toto was
Dorothy's small black dog, with fuzzy, curly hair and bright black eyes.
Together, when they tired of the grandeur of the Emerald City of Oz,
they would wander out into the country and all through the land,
peering into queer nooks and corners and having a good time in their own
simple way. There was a little Wizard living in Oz who was a faithful
friend of Dorothy and did not approve of her traveling alone in this
way, but the girl always laughed at the little man's fears for her and
said she was not afraid of anything that might happen.

[Illustration]

One day while on such a journey, Dorothy and Toto found themselves among
the wild wooded hills at the southeast of Oz--a place usually avoided by
travelers because so many magical things abounded there. And, as they
entered a forest path, the little girl noticed a sign tacked to a tree,
which said: "Look out for Crinklink."

Toto could not talk, as many of the animals of Oz can, for he was just
a common Kansas dog; but he looked at the sign so seriously that Dorothy
almost believed he could read it, and she knew quite well that Toto
understood every word she said to him.

"Never mind Crinklink," said she. "I don't believe anything in Oz will
try to hurt us, Toto, and if I get into trouble you must take care of
me."

"Bow-wow!" said Toto, and Dorothy knew that meant a promise.

The path was narrow and wound here and there between the trees, but they
could not lose their way, because thick vines and creepers shut them in
on both sides. They had walked a long time when, suddenly turning a
curve of the pathway, they came upon a lake of black water, so big and
so deep that they were forced to stop.

[Illustration]

"Well, Toto," said Dorothy, looking at the lake, "we must turn back, I
guess, for there is neither a bridge nor a boat to take us across the
black water."

"Here's the ferryman, though," cried a tiny voice beside them, and the
girl gave a start and looked down at her feet, where a man no taller
than three inches sat at the edge of the path with his legs dangling
over the lake.

"Oh!" said Dorothy; "I didn't see you before."

Toto growled fiercely and made his ears stand up straight, but the
little man did not seem in the least afraid of the dog. He merely
repeated: "I'm the ferryman, and it's my business to carry people across
the lake."

Dorothy couldn't help feeling surprised, for she could have picked the
little man up with one hand, and the lake was big and broad. Looking at
the ferryman more closely she saw that he had small eyes, a big nose,
and a sharp chin. His hair was blue and his clothes scarlet, and Dorothy
noticed that every button on his jacket was the head of some animal. The
top button was a bear's head and the next button a wolf's head; the next
was a cat's head and the next a weasel's head, while the last button of
all was the head of a field-mouse. When Dorothy looked into the eyes
of these animals' heads, they all nodded and said in a chorus: "Don't
believe all you hear, little girl!"

[Illustration]

"Silence!" said the small ferryman, slapping each button head in turn,
but not hard enough to hurt them. Then he turned to Dorothy and asked:
"Do you wish to cross over the lake?"

"Why, I'd like to," she answered, hesitating; "but I can't see how you
will manage to carry us, without any boat."

"If you can't see, you mustn't see," he answered with a laugh. "All you
need do is shut your eyes, say the word, and--over you go!"

Dorothy wanted to get across, in order that she might continue her
journey.

"All right," she said, closing her eyes; "I'm ready."

Instantly she was seized in a pair of strong arms--arms so big and
powerful that she was startled and cried out in fear.

"Silence!" roared a great voice, and the girl opened her eyes to find
that the tiny man had suddenly grown to a giant and was holding both her
and Toto in a tight embrace while in one step he spanned the lake and
reached the other shore.

Dorothy became frightened, then, especially as the giant did not stop
but continued tramping in great steps over the wooded hills, crushing
bushes and trees beneath his broad feet. She struggled in vain to free
herself, while Toto whined and trembled beside her, for the little dog
was frightened, too.

"Stop!" screamed the girl. "Let me down!" But the giant paid no
attention. "Who are you, and where are you taking me?" she continued;
but the giant said not a word. Close to Dorothy's ear, however, a voice
answered her, saying: "This is the terrible Crinklink, and he has you in
his power."

Dorothy managed to twist her head around and found it was the second
button on the jacket--the wolf's head--which had spoken to her.

"What will Crinklink do with me?" she asked anxiously.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

"No one knows. You must wait and see," replied the wolf.

"Some of his captives he whips," squeaked the weasel's head.

"Some he transforms into bugs and other things," growled the bear's
head.

"Some he enchants, so that they become doorknobs," sighed the cat's
head.

"Some he makes his slaves--even as we are--and that is the most dreadful
fate of all," added the field-mouse. "As long as Crinklink exists we
shall remain buttons, but as there are no more buttonholes on his jacket
he will probably make you a slave."

[Illustration]

Dorothy began to wish she had not met Crinklink. Meantime, the giant
took such big steps that he soon reached the heart of the hills,
where, perched upon the highest peak, stood a log castle. Before this
castle he paused to set down Dorothy and Toto, for Crinklink was at
present far too large to enter his own doorway. So he made himself grow
smaller, until he was about the size of an ordinary man. Then he said to
Dorothy, in stern, commanding tones:

"Enter, girl!"

Dorothy obeyed and entered the castle, with Toto at her heels. She
found the place to be merely one big room. There was a table and
chair of ordinary size near the center, and at one side a wee bed
that seemed scarcely big enough for a doll. Everywhere else were
dishes--dishes--dishes! They were all soiled, and were piled upon the
floor, in all the corners and upon every shelf. Evidently Crinklink had
not washed a dish for years, but had cast them aside as he used them.

Dorothy's captor sat down in the chair and frowned at her.

"You are young and strong, and will make a good dishwasher," said he.

"Do you mean me to wash all those dishes?" she asked, feeling both
indignant and fearful, for such a task would take weeks to accomplish.

"That's just what I mean," he retorted. "I need clean dishes, for all I
have are soiled, and you're going to make 'em clean or get trounced. So
get to work and be careful not to break anything. If you smash a dish,
the penalty is one lash from my dreadful cat-o'-nine-tails for every
piece the dish breaks into," and here Crinklink displayed a terrible
whip that made the little girl shudder.

Dorothy knew how to wash dishes, but she remembered that often she
carelessly broke one. In this case, however, a good deal depended on
being careful, so she handled the dishes very cautiously.

While she worked, Toto sat by the hearth and growled low at Crinklink,
and Crinklink sat in his chair and growled at Dorothy because she moved
so slowly. He expected her to break a dish any minute, but as the hours
passed away and this did not happen Crinklink began to grow sleepy. It
was tiresome watching the girl wash dishes and often he glanced
longingly at the tiny bed. Now he began to yawn, and he yawned and
yawned until finally he said:

[Illustration]

"I'm going to take a nap. But the buttons on my jacket will be wide
awake and whenever you break a dish the crash will waken me. As I'm
rather sleepy I hope you won't interrupt my nap by breaking anything for
a long time."

Then Crinklink made himself grow smaller and smaller until he was three
inches high and of a size to fit the tiny bed. At once he lay down and
fell fast asleep.

Dorothy came close to the buttons and whispered: "Would you really warn
Crinklink if I tried to escape?"

"You can't escape," growled the bear. "Crinklink would become a giant,
and soon overtake you."

"But you might kill him while he sleeps," suggested the cat, in a soft
voice.

"Oh!" cried Dorothy, drawing back; "I couldn't poss'bly _kill_
anything--even to save my life."

But Toto had heard this conversation and was not so particular about
killing monsters. Also the little dog knew he must try to save his
mistress. In an instant he sprang upon the wee bed and was about to
seize the sleeping Crinklink in his jaws when Dorothy heard a loud crash
and a heap of dishes fell from the table to the floor. Then the girl saw
Toto and the little man rolling on the floor together, like a fuzzy
ball, and when the ball stopped rolling, behold! there was Toto wagging
his tail joyfully and there sat the little Wizard of Oz, laughing
merrily at the expression of surprise on Dorothy's face.

"Yes, my dear, it's me," said he, "and I've been playing tricks on
you--for your own good. I wanted to prove to you that it is really
dangerous for a little girl to wander alone in a fairy country; so I
took the form of Crinklink to teach you a lesson. There isn't any
Crinklink, to be sure; but if there had been you'd be severely whipped
for breaking all those dishes."

[Illustration]

The Wizard now rose, took off the coat with the button heads, and spread
it on the floor, wrong side up. At once there crept from beneath it a
bear, a wolf, a cat, a weasel, and a field-mouse, who all rushed from
the room and escaped into the mountains.

"Come on, Toto," said Dorothy; "let's go back to the Emerald City.
You've given me a good scare, Wizard," she added, with dignity, "and
p'raps I'll forgive you, by'n'by; but just now I'm mad to think how
easily you fooled me."

[Illustration]




TIKTOK AND THE NOME KING


The Nome King was unpleasantly angry. He had carelessly bitten his
tongue at breakfast and it still hurt; so he roared and raved and
stamped around in his underground palace in a way that rendered him very
disagreeable.

It so happened that on this unfortunate day Tiktok, the Clockwork Man,
visited the Nome King to ask a favor. Tiktok lived in the Land of Oz,
and although he was an active and important person, he was made entirely
of metal. Machinery within him, something like the works of a clock,
made him move; other machinery made him talk; still other machinery made
him think.

[Illustration]

Although so cleverly constructed, the Clockwork Man was far from
perfect. Three separate keys wound up his motion machinery, his speech
works, and his thoughts. One or more of these contrivances was likely to
run down at a critical moment, leaving poor Tiktok helpless. Also some
of his parts were wearing out, through much use, and just now his
thought machinery needed repair. The skillful little Wizard of Oz had
tinkered with Tiktok's thoughts without being able to get them properly
regulated, so he had advised the Clockwork Man to go to the Nome King
and secure a new set of springs, which would render his thoughts more
elastic and responsive.

"Be careful what you say to the Nome King," warned the Wizard. "He has a
bad temper and the least little thing makes him angry."

Tiktok promised, and the Wizard wound his machinery and set him walking
in the direction of the Nome King's dominions, just across the desert
from the Land of Oz. He ran down just as he reached the entrance to the
underground palace, and there Kaliko, the Nome King's Chief Steward,
found him and wound him up again.

"I want to see the King," said Tiktok, in his jerky voice.

"Well," remarked Kaliko, "it may be safe for a cast-iron person like you
to face his Majesty this morning; but you must announce yourself, for
should I show my face inside the jewel-studded cavern where the King is
now raving, I'd soon look like a dish of mashed potatoes, and be of no
further use to anyone."

"I'm not a-fraid," said Tiktok.

"Then walk in and make yourself at home," answered Kaliko, and threw
open the door of the King's cavern.

[Illustration]

Tiktok promptly walked in and faced the astonished Nome King, to whom
he said: "Good morn-ing. I want two new steel springs for my
thought-works and a new cog-wheel for my speech-pro-du-cer. How a-bout
it, your Maj-es-ty?"

The Nome King growled a menacing growl and his eyes were red with rage.

"How dare you enter my presence?" he shouted.

"I dare an-y-thing," said Tiktok. "I'm not a-fraid of a fat Nome."

[Illustration]

This was true, yet an unwise speech. Had Tiktok's thoughts been in good
working order he would have said something else. The angry Nome King
quickly caught up his heavy mace and hurled it straight at Tiktok. When
it struck the metal man's breast, the force of the blow burst the
bolts which held the plates of his body together and they clattered to
the floor in a score of pieces. Hundreds and hundreds of wheels, pins,
cogs and springs filled the air like a cloud and then rattled like hail
upon the floor.

Where Tiktok had stood was now only a scrap-heap and the Nome King was
so amazed by the terrible effect of his blow that he stared in wonder.

His Majesty's anger quickly cooled. He remembered that the Clockwork Man
was a favorite subject of the powerful Princess, Ozma of Oz, who would
be sure to resent Tiktok's ruin.

"Too bad! too bad!" he muttered, regretfully. "I'm really sorry I made
junk of the fellow. I didn't know he'd break."

"You'd better be," remarked Kaliko, who now ventured to enter the room.
"You'll have a war on your hands when Ozma hears of this, and the
chances are you will lose your throne and your kingdom."

The Nome King turned pale, for he loved to rule the Nomes and did not
know of any other way to earn a living in case Ozma fought and conquered
him.

"Do--do you think Ozma will be angry?" he asked anxiously.

"I'm sure of it," said Kaliko. "And she has the right to be. You've made
scrap-iron of her favorite."

The King groaned.

"Sweep him up and throw the rubbish into the black pit," he commanded;
and then he shut himself up in his private den and for days would see no
one, because he was so ashamed of his unreasoning anger and so feared
the results of his rash act.

Kaliko swept up the pieces, but he did not throw them into the black
pit. Being a clever and skillful mechanic he determined to fit the
pieces together again.

No man ever faced a greater puzzle; but it was interesting work and
Kaliko succeeded. When he found a spring or wheel worn or imperfect, he
made a new one.

[Illustration]

Within two weeks, by working steadily night and day, the Chief Steward
completed his task and put the three sets of clockworks and the last
rivet into Tiktok's body. He then wound up the motion machinery, and the
Clockwork Man walked up and down the room as naturally as ever. Then
Kaliko wound up the thought works and the speech regulator and said to
Tiktok:

"How do you feel now?"

"Fine," said the Clockwork Man. "You have done a ve-ry good job,
Kal-i-ko, and saved me from de-struc-tion. Much o-bliged."

"Don't mention it," replied the Chief Steward. "I quite enjoyed the
work."

Just then the Nome King's gong sounded, and Kaliko rushed away through
the jewel-studded cavern and into the den where the King had hidden,
leaving the doors ajar.

"Kaliko," said the King, in a meek voice, "I've been shut up here long
enough to repent bitterly the destruction of Tiktok. Of course Ozma will
have revenge, and send an army to fight us, but we must take our
medicine. One thing comforts me: Tiktok wasn't really a live person; he
was only a machine man, and so it wasn't very wicked to stop his
clockworks. I couldn't sleep nights, at first, for worry; but there's no
more harm in smashing a machine man than in breaking a wax doll. Don't
you think so?"

"I am too humble to think in the presence of your Majesty," said Kaliko.

"Then get me something to eat," commanded the King, "for I'm nearly
starved. Two roasted goats, a barrel of cakes and nine mince pies will
do me until dinnertime."

Kaliko bowed and hurried away to the royal kitchen, forgetting Tiktok,
who was wandering around in the outer cavern. Suddenly the Nome King
looked up and saw the Clockwork Man standing before him, and at the
sight the monarch's eyes grew big and round and he fell a-trembling in
every limb.

"Away, grim Shadow!" he cried. "You're not here, you know; you're only a
hash of cogwheels and springs, lying at the bottom of the black pit.
Vanish, thou Vision of the demolished Tiktok, and leave me in peace--for
I have bitterly repented!"

[Illustration]

"Then beg my pardon," said Tiktok in a gruff voice, for Kaliko had
forgotten to oil the speech works.

But the sound of a voice coming from what he thought a mere vision was
too much for the Nome King's shaken nerves. He gave a yell of fear and
rushed from the room. Tiktok followed, so the King bolted through the
corridors on a swift run and bumped against Kaliko, who was returning
with a tray of things to eat. The sound of the breaking dishes, as they
struck the floor, added to the King's terror and he yelled again and
dashed into a great cavern where a thousand Nomes were at work hammering
metal.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

"Look out! Here comes a phantom clockwork man!" screamed the
terrified monarch, and every Nome dropped his tools and made a rush
from the cavern, knocking over their King in their mad flight and
recklessly trampling upon his prostrate fat body. So, when Tiktok came
into the cavern, there was only the Nome King left, and he was rolling
upon the rocky floor and howling for mercy, with his eyes fast shut so
that he could not see what he was sure was a dreadful phantom that was
coming straight toward him.

"It oc-curs to me," said Tiktok calmly, "that your Maj-es-ty is act-ing
like a ba-by I am not a phan-tom. A phan-tom is unreal, while I am the
real thing."

The King rolled over, sat up and opened his eyes.

"Didn't I smash you to pieces?" he asked in trembling tones.

"Yes," said Tiktok.

"Then you are nothing but a junk-heap, and this form in which you now
appear cannot be real."

"It is, though," declared Tiktok. "Kal-i-ko picked up my piec-es and put
me to-geth-er a-gain. I'm as good as new, and perhaps bet-ter."

"That is true, your Majesty," added Kaliko, who now made his appearance,
"and I hope you will forgive me for mending Tiktok. He was quite broken
up, after you smashed him, and I found it almost as hard a job to match
his pieces as to pick turnips from gooseberry bushes. But I did it," he
added proudly.

"You are forgiven," announced the Nome King, rising to his feet and
drawing a long breath. "I will raise your wages one specto a year, and
Tiktok shall return to the Land of Oz loaded with jewels for the
Princess Ozma."

"That is all right," said Tiktok. "But what I want to know is, why did
you hit me with your mace?"

"Because I was angry," admitted the King. "When I am angry I always do
something that I am sorry for afterward. So I have firmly resolved never
to get angry again; unless--unless--"

"Unless what, your Majesty?" inquired Kaliko.

[Illustration]

"Unless something annoys me," said the Nome King. And then he went to
his treasure-chamber to get the jewels for Princess Ozma of Oz.

[Illustration]




OZMA AND THE LITTLE WIZARD


Once upon a time there lived in the beautiful Emerald City, which lies
in the center of the fairy Land of Oz, a lovely girl called Princess
Ozma, who was ruler of all that country. And among those who served this
girlish Ruler and lived in a cozy suite of rooms in her splendid palace,
was a little, withered old man known as the Wizard of Oz.

[Illustration]

This little Wizard could do a good many queer things in magic; but he
was a kind man, with merry, twinkling eyes and a sweet smile; so,
instead of fearing him because of his magic, everybody loved him.

Now, Ozma was very anxious that all her people who inhabited the
pleasant Land of Oz should be happy and contented, and therefore she
decided one morning to make a journey to all parts of the country, that
she might discover if anything was amiss, or anyone discontented, or if
there was any wrong that ought to be righted. She asked the little
Wizard to accompany her and he was glad to go.

"Shall I take my bag of magic tools with me?" he asked.

"Of course," said Ozma. "We may need a lot of magic before we return,
for we are going into strange corners of the land, where we may meet
with unknown creatures and dangerous adventures."

So the Wizard took his bag of magic tools and the two left the Emerald
City and wandered over the country for many days, at last reaching a
place far up in the mountains which neither of them had ever visited
before. Stopping one morning at a cottage, built beside the rocky path
which led into a pretty valley beyond, Ozma asked a man:

"Are you happy? Have you any complaint to make of your lot?"

And the man replied:

"We are happy except for three mischievous Imps that live in yonder
valley and often come here to annoy us. If your Highness would only
drive away those Imps, I and my family would be very happy and very
grateful to you."

"Who are these bad Imps?" inquired the girl Ruler.

"One is named Olite, and one Udent and one Ertinent, and they have no
respect for anyone or anything. If strangers pass through the valley the
Imps jeer at them and make horrid faces and call names, and often they
push travelers out of the path or throw stones at them. Whenever Imp
Olite or Imp Udent or Imp Ertinent comes here to bother us, I and my
family run into the house and lock all the doors and windows, and we
dare not venture out again until the Imps have gone away."

Princess Ozma was grieved to hear this report and the little Wizard
shook his head gravely and said the naughty Imps deserved to be
punished. They told the good man they would see what could be done to
protect him and at once entered the valley to seek the dwelling place of
the three mischievous creatures.

[Illustration]

Before long they came upon three caves, hollowed from the rocks, and in
front of each cave squatted a queer little dwarf. Ozma and the Wizard
paused to examine them and found them well-shaped, strong and lively.
They had big round ears, flat noses and wide grinning mouths, and
their jet-black hair came to points on top of their heads, much
resembling horns. Their clothing fitted snugly to their bodies and limbs
and the Imps were so small in size that at first Ozma did not consider
them at all dangerous. But one of them suddenly reached out a hand and
caught the dress of the Princess, jerking it so sharply that she nearly
fell down, and a moment later another Imp pushed the little Wizard so
hard that he bumped against Ozma and both unexpectedly sat down upon the
ground.

At this the Imps laughed boisterously and began running around in a
circle and kicking dust upon the Royal Princess, who cried in a sharp
voice: "Wizard, do your duty!"

The Wizard promptly obeyed. Without rising from the ground he opened his
bag, got the tools he required and muttered a magic spell.

Instantly the three Imps became three bushes--of a thorny stubby
kind--with their roots in the ground. As the bushes were at first
motionless, perhaps through surprise at their sudden transformation, the
Wizard and the Princess found time to rise from the ground and brush the
dust off their pretty clothes. Then Ozma turned to the bushes and said:

"The unhappy lot you now endure, my poor Imps, is due entirely to your
naughty actions. You can no longer annoy harmless travelers and you
must remain ugly bushes, covered with sharp thorns, until you repent of
your bad ways and promise to be good Imps."

"They can't help being good now, your Highness," said the Wizard, who
was much pleased with his work, "and the safest plan will be to allow
them always to remain bushes."

But something must have been wrong with the Wizard's magic, or the
creatures had magic of their own, for no sooner were the words spoken
than the bushes began to move. At first they only waved their branches
at the girl and little man, but pretty soon they began to slide over the
ground, their roots dragging through the earth, and one pushed itself
against the Wizard and pricked him so sharply with its thorns that he
cried out: "Ouch!" and started to run away.

[Illustration]

Ozma followed, for the other bushes were trying to stick their thorns
into her legs and one actually got so near her that it tore a great rent
in her beautiful dress. The girl Princess could run, however, and she
followed the fleeing Wizard until he tumbled head first over a log and
rolled upon the ground. Then she sprang behind a tree and shouted:
"Quick! Transform them into something else."

The Wizard heard, but he was much confused by his fall. Grabbing from
his bag the first magical tool he could find he transformed the bushes
into three white pigs. That astonished the Imps. In the shape of
pigs--fat, roly-poly and cute--they scampered off a little distance and
sat down to think about their new condition.

Ozma drew a long breath and coming from behind the tree she said:

"That is much better, Wiz, for such pigs as these must be quite
harmless. No one need now fear the mischievous Imps."

"I intended to transform them into mice," replied the Wizard, "but in my
excitement I worked the wrong magic. However, unless the horrid
creatures behave themselves hereafter, they are liable to be killed and
eaten. They would make good chops, sausages or roasts."

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

But the Imps were now angry and had no intention of behaving. As Ozma
and the little Wizard turned to resume their journey, the three pigs
rushed forward, dashed between their legs, and tripped them up, so that
both lost their balance and toppled over, clinging to one another. As
the Wizard tried to get up he was tripped again and fell across the back
of the third pig, which carried him on a run far down the valley until
it dumped the little man in the river. Ozma had been sprawled upon the
ground but found she was not hurt, so she picked herself up and ran to
the assistance of the Wizard, reaching him just as he was crawling out
of the river, gasping for breath and dripping with water. The girl could
not help laughing at his woeful appearance. But he had no sooner wiped
the wet from his eyes than one of the impish pigs tripped him again and
sent him into the river for a second bath. The pigs tried to trip Ozma,
too, but she ran around a stump and so managed to keep out of their way.
So the Wizard scrambled out of the water again and picked up a sharp
stick to defend himself. Then he mumbled a magic mutter which instantly
dried his clothes, after which he hurried to assist Ozma. The pigs were
afraid of the sharp stick and kept away from it.

"This won't do," said the Princess. "We have accomplished nothing, for
the pig Imps would annoy travelers as much as the real Imps. Transform
them into something else, Wiz."

[Illustration]

The Wizard took time to think. Then he transformed the white pigs into
three blue doves.

"Doves," said he, "are the most harmless things in the world."

But scarcely had he spoken when the doves flew at them and tried to peck
out their eyes. When they endeavored to shield their eyes with their
hands, two of the doves bit the Wizard's fingers and another caught the
pretty pink ear of the Princess in its bill and gave it such a cruel
tweak that she cried out in pain and threw her skirt over her head.

"These birds are worse than pigs, Wizard," she called to her companion.
"Nothing is harmless that is animated by impudent anger or impertinent
mischief. You must transform the Imps into something that is not alive."

The Wizard was pretty busy, just then, driving off the birds, but he
managed to open his bag of magic and find a charm which instantly
transformed the doves into three buttons. As they fell to the ground he
picked them up and smiled with satisfaction. The tin button was Imp
Olite, the brass button was Imp Udent and the lead button was Imp
Ertinent. These buttons the Wizard placed in a little box which he put
in his jacket pocket.

[Illustration]

"Now," said he, "the Imps cannot annoy travelers, for we shall carry
them back with us to the Emerald City."

"But we dare not use the buttons," said Ozma, smiling _once more_ now
that the danger was over.

"Why not?" asked the Wizard. "I intend to sew them upon my coat and
watch them carefully. The spirits of the Imps are still in the buttons,
and after a time they will repent and be sorry for their naughtiness.
Then they will decide to be very good in the future. When they feel that
way, the tin button will turn to silver and the brass to gold, while the
lead button will become aluminum. I shall then restore them to their
proper forms, changing their names to pretty names instead of the ugly
ones they used to bear. Thereafter the three Imps will become good
citizens of the Land of Oz and I think you will find they will prove
faithful subjects of our beloved Princess Ozma."

[Illustration]

"Ah, that is magic well worthwhile," exclaimed Ozma, well pleased.
"There is no doubt, my friend, but that you are a very clever Wizard."

[Illustration]




JACK PUMPKINHEAD AND THE SAWHORSE


In a room of the Royal Palace of the Emerald City of Oz hangs a Magic
Picture, in which are shown all the important scenes that transpire in
those fairy dominions. The scenes shift constantly and by watching them,
Ozma, the girl Ruler, is able to discover events taking place in any
part of her kingdom.

One day she saw in her Magic Picture that a little girl and a little boy
had wandered together into a great, gloomy forest at the far west of Oz
and had become hopelessly lost. Their friends were seeking them in the
wrong direction and unless Ozma came to their rescue the little ones
would never be found in time to save them from starving.

So the Princess sent a message to Jack Pumpkinhead and asked him to come
to the palace. This personage, one of the queerest of the queer
inhabitants of Oz, was an old friend and companion of Ozma. His form was
made of rough sticks fitted together and dressed in ordinary clothes.
His head was a pumpkin with a face carved upon it, and was set on top a
sharp stake which formed his neck.

Jack was active, good-natured and a general favorite; but his pumpkin
head was likely to spoil with age, so in order to secure a good supply
of heads he grew a big field of pumpkins and lived in the middle of it,
his house being a huge pumpkin hollowed out. Whenever he needed a new
head he picked a pumpkin, carved a face on it and stuck it upon the
stake of his neck, throwing away the old head as of no further use.

The day Ozma sent for him Jack was in prime condition and was glad to be
of service in rescuing the lost children. Ozma made him a map, showing
just where the forest was and how to get to it and the paths he must
take to reach the little ones. Then she said:

[Illustration]

"You'd better ride the Sawhorse, for he is swift and intelligent and
will help you accomplish your task."

"All right," answered Jack, and went to the royal stable to tell the
Sawhorse to be ready for the trip.

This remarkable animal was not unlike Jack Pumpkinhead in form, although
so different in shape. Its body was a log, with four sticks stuck into
it for legs. A branch at one end of the log served as a tail, while in
the other end was chopped a gash that formed a mouth. Above this were
two small knots that did nicely for eyes. The Sawhorse was the favorite
steed of Ozma and to prevent its wooden legs from wearing out she had
them shod with plates of gold.

Jack said "Good morning" to the Sawhorse and placed upon the creature's
back a saddle of purple leather, studded with jewels.

"Where now?" asked the horse, blinking its knot eyes at Jack.

"We're going to rescue two babes in the wood," was the reply. Then he
climbed into the saddle and the wooden animal pranced out of the stable,
through the streets of the Emerald City and out upon the highway leading
to the western forest where the children were lost.

Small though he was, the Sawhorse was swift and untiring. By nightfall
they were in the far west and quite close to the forest they sought.
They passed the night standing quietly by the roadside. They needed no
food, for their wooden bodies never became hungry; nor did they sleep,
because they never tired. At daybreak they continued their journey and
soon reached the forest.

Jack now examined the map Ozma had given him and found the right path to
take, which the Sawhorse obediently followed. Underneath the trees all
was silent and gloomy and Jack beguiled the way by whistling gayly as
the Sawhorse trotted along.

[Illustration]

The paths branched so many times and in so many different ways that the
Pumpkinhead was often obliged to consult Ozma's map, and finally the
Sawhorse became suspicious.

"Are you sure you are right?" it asked.

"Of course," answered Jack. "Even a Pumpkinhead whose brains are seeds
can follow so clear a map as this. Every path is plainly marked, and
here is a cross where the children are."

Finally they reached a place, in the very heart of the forest, where
they came upon the lost boy and girl. But they found the two children
bound fast to the trunk of a big tree, at the foot of which they were
sitting.

When the rescuers arrived, the little girl was sobbing bitterly and the
boy was trying to comfort her, though he was probably frightened as
much as she.

"Cheer up, my dears," said Jack, getting out of the saddle. "I have come
to take you back to your parents. But why are you bound to that tree?"

"Because," cried a small, sharp voice, "they are thieves and robbers.
That's why!"

"Dear me!" said Jack, looking around to see who had spoken. The voice
seemed to come from above.

A big grey squirrel was sitting upon a low branch of the tree. Upon the
squirrel's head was a circle of gold, with a diamond set in the center
of it. He was running up and down the limbs and chattering excitedly.

[Illustration]

"These children," continued the squirrel, angrily, "robbed our
storehouse of all the nuts we had saved up for winter. Therefore, being
King of all the Squirrels in this forest, I ordered them arrested and
put in prison, as you now see them. They had no right to steal our
provisions and we are going to punish them."

"We were hungry," said the boy, pleadingly, "and we found a hollow tree
full of nuts, and ate them to keep alive. We didn't want to starve when
there was food right in front of us."

"Quite right," remarked Jack, nodding his pumpkin head. "I don't blame
you one bit, under the circumstances. Not a bit."

Then he began to untie the ropes that bound the children to the tree.

"Stop that!" cried the King Squirrel, chattering and whisking about.
"You mustn't release our prisoners. You have no right to."

But Jack paid no attention to the protest. His wooden fingers were
awkward and it took him some time to untie the ropes. When at last he
succeeded, the tree was full of squirrels, called together by their
King, and they were furious at losing their prisoners. From the tree
they began to hurl nuts at the Pumpkinhead, who laughed at them as he
helped the two children to their feet.

[Illustration]

Now, at the top of this tree was a big dead limb, and so many squirrels
gathered upon it that suddenly it broke away and fell to the ground.
Poor Jack was standing directly under it and when the limb struck him it
smashed his pumpkin head into a pulpy mass and sent Jack's wooden form
tumbling, to stop with a bump against a tree a dozen feet away.

He sat up, a moment afterward, but when he felt for his head it was
gone. He could not see; neither could he speak. It was perhaps the
greatest misfortune that could have happened to Jack Pumpkinhead, and
the squirrels were delighted. They danced around in the tree in great
glee as they saw Jack's plight.

[Illustration]

The boy and girl were indeed free, but their protector was ruined. The
Sawhorse was there, however, and in his way he was wise. He had seen
the accident and knew that the smashed pumpkin would never again serve
Jack as a head. So he said to the children, who were frightened at this
accident to their new found friend:

"Pick up the Pumpkinhead's body and set it on my saddle. Then mount
behind it and hold on. We must get out of this forest as soon as we can,
or the squirrels may capture you again. I must guess at the right path,
for Jack's map is no longer of any use to him since that limb destroyed
his head."

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

The two children lifted Jack's body, which was not at all heavy, and
placed it upon the saddle. Then they climbed up behind it and the
Sawhorse immediately turned and trotted back along the path he had
come, bearing all three with ease. However, when the path began to
branch into many paths, all following different directions, the wooden
animal became puzzled and soon was wandering aimlessly about, without
any hope of finding the right way. Toward evening they came upon a fine
fruit tree, which furnished the children a supper, and at night the
little ones lay upon a bed of leaves while the Sawhorse stood watch,
with the limp, headless form of poor Jack Pumpkinhead lying helpless
across the saddle.

Now, Ozma had seen in her Magic Picture all that had happened in the
forest, so she sent the little Wizard, mounted upon the Cowardly Lion,
to save the unfortunates. The Lion knew the forest well and when he
reached it he bounded straight through the tangled paths to where the
Sawhorse was wandering, with Jack and the two children on his back.

The Wizard was grieved at the sight of the headless Jack, but believed
he could save him. He first led the Sawhorse out of the forest and
restored the boy and girl to the arms of their anxious friends, and then
he sent the Lion back to Ozma to tell her what had happened.

[Illustration]

The Wizard now mounted the Sawhorse and supported Jack's form on the
long ride to the pumpkin field. When they arrived at Jack's house the
Wizard selected a fine pumpkin--not too ripe--and very neatly carved a
face on it. Then he stuck the pumpkin solidly on Jack's neck and asked
him:

"Well, old friend, how do you feel?"

"Fine!" replied Jack, and shook the hand of the little Wizard
gratefully. "You have really saved my life, for without your assistance
I could not have found my way home to get a new head. But I'm all right,
now, and I shall be very careful not to get this beautiful head
smashed." And he shook the Wizard's hand again.

"Are the brains in the new head any better than the old ones?" inquired
the Sawhorse, who had watched Jack's restoration.

"Why, these seeds are quite tender," replied the Wizard, "so they will
give our friend tender thoughts. But, to speak truly, my dear Sawhorse,
Jack Pumpkinhead, with all his good qualities, will never be noted for
his wisdom."

[Illustration]




THE SCARECROW AND THE TIN WOODMAN


There lived in the Land of Oz two queerly made men who were the best of
friends. They were so much happier when together that they were seldom
apart; yet they liked to separate, once in a while, that they might
enjoy the pleasure of meeting again.

One was a Scarecrow. That means he was a suit of blue Munchkin clothes,
stuffed with straw, on top of which was fastened a round cloth head,
filled with bran to hold it in shape. On the head were painted two eyes,
two ears, a nose and a mouth. The Scarecrow had never been much of a
success in scaring crows, but he prided himself on being a superior man,
because he could feel no pain, was never tired and did not have to eat
or drink. His brains were sharp, for the Wizard of Oz had put pins and
needles in the Scarecrow's brains.

The other man was made all of tin, his arms and legs and head being
cleverly jointed so that he could move them freely. He was known as the
Tin Woodman, having at one time been a woodchopper, and everyone loved
him because the Wizard had given him an excellent heart of red plush.

The Tin Woodman lived in a magnificent tin castle, built on his country
estate in the Winkie Land, not far from the Emerald City of Oz. It had
pretty tin furniture and was surrounded by lovely gardens in which were
many tin trees and beds of tin flowers. The palace of the Scarecrow was
not far distant, on the banks of a river, and this palace was in the
shape of an immense ear of corn.

One morning the Tin Woodman went to visit his friend the Scarecrow, and
as they had nothing better to do they decided to take a boat ride on the
river. So they got into the Scarecrow's boat, which was formed from a
big corncob, hollowed out and pointed at both ends and decorated around
the edges with brilliant jewels. The sail was of purple silk and
glittered gayly in the sunshine.

There was a good breeze that day, so the boat glided swiftly over the
water. By and by they came to a smaller river that flowed from out a
deep forest, and the Tin Woodman proposed they sail up this stream, as
it would be cool and shady beneath the trees of the forest. So the
Scarecrow, who was steering, turned the boat up the stream and the
friends continued talking together of old times and the wonderful
adventures they had met with while traveling with Dorothy, the little
Kansas girl. They became so much interested in this talk that they
forgot to notice that the boat was now sailing through the forest, or
that the stream was growing more narrow and crooked.

Suddenly the Scarecrow glanced up and saw a big rock just ahead of them.

"Look out!" he cried; but the warning came too late.

The Tin Woodman sprang to his feet just as the boat bumped into the
rock, and the jar made him lose his balance. He toppled and fell
overboard and being made of tin he sank to the bottom of the water in an
instant and lay there at full length, face up.

Immediately the Scarecrow threw out the anchor, so as to hold the boat
in that place, and then he leaned over the side and through the clear
water looked at his friend sorrowfully.

[Illustration]

"Dear me!" he exclaimed; "what a _misfortune_!"

"It is, indeed," replied the Tin Woodman, speaking in muffled tones
because so much water covered him. "I cannot drown, of course, but I
must lie here until you find a way to get me out. Meantime, the water is
soaking into all my joints and I shall become badly rusted before I am
rescued."

"Very true," agreed the Scarecrow; "but be patient, my friend, and I'll
dive down and get you. My straw will not rust, and is easily replaced,
if damaged, so I'm not afraid of the water."

The Scarecrow now took off his hat and made a dive from the boat into
the water; but he was so light in weight that he barely dented the
surface of the stream, nor could he reach the Tin Woodman with his
outstretched straw arms. So he floated to the boat and climbed into it,
saying the while:

"Do not despair, my friend. We have an extra anchor aboard, and I will
tie it around my waist, to make me sink, and dive again."

"Don't do that!" called the tin man. "That would anchor you also to the
bottom, where I am, and we'd both be helpless."

"True enough," sighed the Scarecrow, wiping his wet face with a
handkerchief; and then he gave a cry of astonishment, for he found he
had wiped off one painted eye and now had but one eye to see with.

[Illustration]

"How dreadful!" said the poor Scarecrow. "That eye must have been
painted in water-color, instead of oil. I must be careful not to wipe
off the other eye, for then I could not see to help you at all."

A shriek of elfish laughter greeted this speech and looking up the
Scarecrow found the trees full of black crows, who seemed much amused by
the straw man's one-eyed countenance. He knew the crows well, however,
and they had usually been friendly to him because he had never deceived
them into thinking he was a meat man--the sort of man they really
feared.

"Don't laugh," said he; "you may lose an eye yourselves some day."

[Illustration]

"We couldn't look as funny as you, if we did," replied one old crow, the
king of them. "But what has gone wrong with you?"

"The Tin Woodman, my dear friend and companion, has fallen overboard and
is now on the bottom of the river," said the Scarecrow. "I'm trying to
get him out again, but I fear I shall not succeed."

"Why, it's easy enough," declared the old crow. "Tie a string to him and
all of my crows will fly down, take hold of the string, and pull him up
out of the water. There are hundreds of us here, so our united strength
could lift much more than that."

"But I can't tie a string to him," replied the Scarecrow. "My straw is
so light that I am unable to dive through the water. I've tried it, and
knocked one eye out."

"Can't you fish for him?"

"Ah, that is a good idea," said the Scarecrow. "I'll make the attempt."

He found a fishline in the boat, with a stout hook at the end of it. No
bait was needed, so the Scarecrow dropped the hook into the water till
it touched the Woodman.

"Hook it into a joint," advised the crow, who was now perched upon a
branch that stuck far out and bent down over the water.

The Scarecrow tried to do this, but having only one eye he could not see
the joints very clearly.

"Hurry up, please," begged the Tin Woodman; "you've no idea how damp it
is down here."

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

"Can't you help?" asked the crow.

"How?" inquired the tin man.

"Catch the line and hook it around your neck."

The Tin Woodman made the attempt and after several trials wound the line
around his neck and hooked it securely.

"Good!" cried the King Crow, a mischievous old fellow. "Now, then, we'll
all grab the line and pull you out."

At once the air was filled with black crows, each of whom seized the
cord with beak or talons. The Scarecrow watched them with much interest
and forgot that he had tied the other end of the line around his own
waist, so he would not lose it while fishing for his friend.

"All together for the good caws!" shrieked the King Crow, and with a
great flapping of wings the birds rose into the air.

The Scarecrow clapped his stuffed hands in glee as he saw his friend
drawn from the water into the air; but the next moment the straw man was
himself in the air, his stuffed legs kicking wildly; for the crows had
flown straight up through the trees. On one end of the line dangled the
Tin Woodman, hung by the neck, and on the other dangled the Scarecrow,
hung by the waist and clinging fast to the spare anchor of the boat,
which he had seized hoping to save himself.

"Hi, there--be careful!" shouted the Scarecrow to the crows. "Don't take
us so high. Land us on the river bank."

[Illustration]

But the crows were bent on mischief. They thought it a good joke to
bother the two, now that they held them captive.

"Here's where the crows scare the Scarecrow!" chuckled the naughty King
Crow, and at his command the birds flew over the forest to where a tall
dead tree stood higher than all the other trees. At the very top was a
crotch, formed by two dead limbs, and into the crotch the crows dropped
the center of the line. Then, letting go their hold, they flew away,
chattering with laughter, and left the two friends suspended high in the
air--one on each side of the tree.

Now the Tin Woodman was much heavier than the Scarecrow, but the reason
they balanced so nicely was because the straw man still clung fast to
the iron anchor. There they hung, not ten feet apart, yet unable to
reach the bare tree-trunk.

"For goodness sake don't drop that anchor," said the Tin Woodman
anxiously.

"Why not?" inquired the Scarecrow.

"If you did I'd tumble to the ground, where my tin would be badly dented
by the fall. Also you would shoot into the air and alight somewhere
among the tree-tops."

"Then," said the Scarecrow, earnestly, "I shall hold fast to the
anchor."

For a time they both dangled in silence, the breeze swaying them gently
to and fro. Finally the tin man said: "Here is an emergency, friend,
where only brains can help us. We must think of some way to escape."

"I'll do the thinking," replied the Scarecrow. "My brains are the
sharpest."

He thought so long that the tin man grew tired and tried to change his
position, but found his joints had already rusted so badly that he could
not move them. And his oil-can was back in the boat.

"Do you suppose your brains are rusted, friend Scarecrow?" he asked in a
weak voice, for his jaws would scarcely move.

"No, indeed. Ah, here's an idea at last!"

And with this the Scarecrow clapped his hands to his head, forgetting
the anchor, which tumbled to the ground. The result was astonishing;
for, just as the tin man had said, the light Scarecrow flew into the
air, sailed over the top of the tree and landed in a bramble-bush, while
the tin man fell plump to the ground, and landing on a bed of dry leaves
was not dented at all. The Tin Woodman's joints were so rusted, however,
that he was unable to move, while the thorns held the Scarecrow a fast
prisoner.

While they were in this sad plight the sound of hoofs was heard and
along the forest path rode the little Wizard of Oz, seated on a wooden
Sawhorse. He smiled when he saw the one-eyed head of the Scarecrow
sticking out of the bramble-bush, but he helped the poor straw man out
of his prison.

"Thank you, dear Wiz," said the grateful Scarecrow. "Now we must get the
oil-can and rescue the Tin Woodman."

[Illustration]

Together they ran to the river bank, but the boat was floating in
midstream and the Wizard was obliged to mumble some magic words to draw
it to the bank, so the Scarecrow could get the oil-can. Then back they
flew to the tin man, and while the Scarecrow carefully oiled each joint
the little Wizard moved the joints gently back and forth until they
worked freely. After an hour of this labor the Tin Woodman was again on
his feet, and although still a little stiff he managed to walk to the
boat.

The Wizard and the Sawhorse also got aboard the corncob craft and
together they returned to the Scarecrow's palace. But the Tin Woodman
was very careful not to stand up in the boat again.
﻿

                               The Marvelous
                                Land of Oz

                         Being an account of the
                        further adventures of the

                                Scarecrow
                             and Tin Woodman

                         and also the strange
                       experiences of the highly
                 magnified Woggle-Bug, Jack Pumpkinhead,
                          the Animated Saw-Horse
                              and the Gump;
                             the story being

                      A Sequel to The Wizard of Oz



                         Author's Note

After the publication of "The Wonderful Wizard of OZ" I began to receive
letters from children, telling me of their pleasure in reading the story and
asking me to "write something more" about the Scarecrow and the Tin Woodman.
At first I considered these little letters, frank and earnest though they
were, in the light of pretty compliments; but the letters continued to come
during succeeding months, and even years.

Finally I promised one little girl, who made a long journey to see me and
prefer her request,--and she is a "Dorothy," by the way--that when a
thousand little girls had written me a thousand little letters asking for
the Scarecrow and the Tin Woodman I would write the book, Either little
Dorothy was a fairy in disguise, and waved her magic wand, or the success of
the stage production of "The Wizard of OZ" made new friends for the story,
For the thousand letters reached their destination long since--and many
more followed them.

And now, although pleading guilty to long delay, I have kept my promise in
this book.

L. FRANK BAUM.

Chicago, June, 1904



                        To those excellent
                          good fellows
                              and
                           comedians
                            David C.
                           Montgomery
                              and
                         Frank A. Stone
                          whose clever
                        personations of
                              the
                          Tin Woodman
                            and the
                           Scarecrow
                        have delighted
                         thousands of
                           children
                     throughout the land,
                        this book is
                    gratefully dedicated
                              by
                          THE AUTHOR



     LIST OF CHAPTERS
                                                        PAGE
Tip Manufactures Pumpkinhead                              7

The Marvelous Powder of Life                             15

The Flight of the Fugitives                              29

Tip Makes an Experiment in Magic                         39

The Awakening of the Saw-horse                           47

Jack Pumpkinhead's Ride to the Emerald City              59

His Majesty the Scarecrow                                71

Gen. Jinjur's Army of Revolt                             83

The Scarecrow Plans an escape                            97

The Journey to the Tin Woodman                          109

A Nickel-Plated Emperor                                 121

Mr. H. M. Woggle-Bug, T. E.                             135

A Highly Magnified History                              147

Old Mombi indulges in Witchcraft                        159

The Prisoners of the Queen                              169

The Scarecrow Takes Time to Think                       181

The Astonishing Flight of the Gump                      191

In the Jackdaw's Nest                                   201

Dr. Nikidik's Famous Wishing Pills                      219

The Scarecrow Appeals to Glinda the Good                231

The Tin-Woodman Plucks a Rose                           247

The Transformation of Old Mombi                         257

Princess Ozma of Oz                                     265

The Riches of Content                                   279




7                    Tip Manufactures a Pumpkinhead


In the Country of the Gillikins, which is at the North of the Land of Oz,
lived a youth called Tip. There was more to his name than that, for old
Mombi often declared that his whole name was Tippetarius; but no one was
expected to say such a long word when "Tip" would do just as well.

This boy remembered nothing of his parents, for he had been brought when
quite young to be reared by the old woman known as Mombi, whose reputation,
I am sorry to say, was none of the best. For the Gillikin people had reason
to suspect her of indulging in magical arts, and therefore hesitated to
associate with her.

Mombi was not exactly a Witch, because the Good Witch who ruled that part of
the Land of Oz



8                    Line-Art Drawing

had forbidden any other Witch to exist in her dominions. So Tip's guardian,
however much she might aspire to working magic, realized it was unlawful to
be more than a Sorceress, or at most a Wizardess.

Tip was made to carry wood from the forest, that the old woman might boil
her pot. He also worked in the corn-fields, hoeing and husking; and he fed
the pigs and milked the four-horned cow that was Mombi's especial pride.

But you must not suppose he worked all the time, for he felt that would be
bad for him. When sent to the forest Tip often climbed trees for birds' eggs
or amused himself chasing the fleet white rabbits or fishing in the brooks
with bent pins. Then he would hastily gather his armful of wood and carry it
home. And when he was supposed to be working in the corn-fields, and the
tall stalks hid him from Mombi's view, Tip would often dig in the gopher
holes, or if the mood seized him--



9
lie upon his back between the rows of corn and take a nap. So, by taking
care not to exhaust his strength, he grew as strong and rugged as a boy may
be.

Mombi's curious magic often frightened her neighbors, and they treated her
shyly, yet respectfully, because of her weird powers. But Tip frankly hated
her, and took no pains to hide his feelings. Indeed, he sometimes showed
less respect for the old woman than he should have done, considering she was
his guardian.

There were pumpkins in Mombi's corn-fields, lying golden red among the rows
of green stalks; and these had been planted and carefully tended that the
four-horned cow might eat of them in the winter time. But one day, after the
corn had all been cut and stacked, and Tip was carrying the pumpkins to the
stable, he took a notion to make a "Jack Lantern" and try to give the old
woman a fright with it.

So he selected a fine, big pumpkin--one with a lustrous, orange-red color--and
began carving it. With the point of his knife he made two round eyes,
a three-cornered nose, and

               Line-Art Drawing



10
a mouth shaped like a new moon. The face, when completed, could not have
been considered strictly beautiful; but it wore a smile so big and broad,
and was so jolly in expression, that even Tip laughed as he looked
admiringly at his work.

The child had no playmates, so he did not know that boys often dig out the
inside of a "pumpkin-jack," and in the space thus made put a lighted candle
to render the face more startling; but he conceived an idea of his own that
promised to be quite as effective. He decided to manufacture the form of a
man, who would wear this pumpkin head, and to stand it in a place where old
Mombi would meet it face to face.

"And then," said Tip to himself, with a laugh, "she'll squeal louder than
the brown pig does when I pull her tail, and shiver with fright worse than I
did last year when I had the ague!"

He had plenty of time to accomplish this task, for Mombi had gone to a
village--to buy groceries, she said--and it was a journey of at least
two days.

So he took his axe to the forest, and selected some stout, straight
saplings, which he cut down and trimmed of all their twigs and leaves. From
these he would make the arms, and legs, and feet of his man. For the body he
stripped a sheet of thick



11
bark from around a big tree, and with much labor fashioned it into a
cylinder of about the right size, pinning the edges together with wooden
pegs. Then, whistling happily as he worked, he carefully jointed the limbs
and fastened them to the body with pegs whittled into shape with his knife.

By the time this feat had been accomplished it began to grow dark, and Tip
remembered he must milk the cow and feed the pigs. So he picked up his
wooden man and carried it back to the house with him.

During the evening, by the light of the fire in the kitchen, Tip carefully
rounded all the edges of the joints and smoothed the rough places in a neat
and workmanlike manner. Then he stood the figure up against the wall and
admired it. It seemed remarkably tall, even for a full-grown man; but that
was a good point in a small boy's eyes, and Tip did not object at all to the
size of his creation.

Next morning, when he looked at his work again, Tip saw he had forgotten to
give the dummy a neck, by means of which he might fasten the pumpkinhead to
the body. So he went again to the forest, which was not far away, and
chopped from a tree several pieces of wood with which to complete his work.
When he returned he fastened a cross-piece



12
to the upper end of the body, making a hole through the center to hold
upright the neck. The bit of wood which formed this neck was also sharpened
at the upper end, and when all was ready Tip put on the pumpkin head,
pressing it well down onto the neck, and found that it fitted very well. The
head could be turned to one side or the other, as he pleased, and the hinges
of the arms and legs allowed him to place the dummy in any position he
desired.

"Now, that," declared Tip, proudly, "is really a very fine man, and it
ought to frighten several screeches out of old Mombi! But it would be much
more lifelike if it were properly dressed."

To find clothing seemed no easy task; but Tip boldly ransacked the great
chest in which Mombi kept all her keepsakes and treasures, and at the very
bottom he discovered some purple trousers, a red shirt and a pink vest which
was dotted with white spots. These he carried away to his man and succeeded,
although the garments did not fit very well, in dressing the creature in a
jaunty fashion. Some knit stockings belonging to Mombi and a much worn pair
of his own shoes completed the man's apparel, and Tip was so delighted that
he danced up and down and laughed aloud in boyish ecstacy.



13

"I must give him a name!" he cried. "So good a man as this must surely have
a name. I believe," he added, after a moment's thought, "I will name the
fellow 'Jack Pumpkinhead!'"

               Line-Art Drawing



14               Full page line-art drawing.



15               The Marvelous Powder of Life


After considering the matter carefully, Tip decided that the best place to
locate Jack would be at the bend in the road, a little way from the house.
So he started to carry his man there, but found him heavy and rather awkward
to handle. After dragging the creature a short distance Tip stood him on his
feet, and by first bending the joints of one leg, and then those of the
other, at the same time pushing from behind, the boy managed to induce Jack
to walk to the bend in the road. It was not accomplished without a few
tumbles, and Tip really worked harder than he ever had in the fields or



16
forest; but a love of mischief urged him on, and it pleased him to test the
cleverness of his workmanship.

"Jack's all right, and works fine!" he said to himself, panting with the
unusual exertion. But just then he discovered the man's left arm had fallen
off in the journey so he went back to find it, and afterward, by whittling a
new and stouter pin for the shoulder-joint, he repaired the injury so
successfully that the arm was stronger than before. Tip also noticed that
Jack's pumpkin head had twisted around until it faced his back; but this was
easily remedied. When, at last, the man was set up facing the turn in the
path where old Mombi was to appear, he looked natural enough to be a fair
imitation of a Gillikin farmer,--and unnatural enough to startle anyone
that came on him unawares.

As it was yet too early in the day to expect the old woman to return home,
Tip went down into the valley below the farm-house and began to gather nuts
from the trees that grew there.

However, old Mombi returned earlier than usual. She had met a crooked
wizard who resided in a lonely cave in the mountains, and had traded
several important secrets of magic with him. Hav-



17
ing in this way secured three new recipes, four magical powders and a
selection of herbs of wonderful power and potency, she hobbled home as fast
as she could, in order to test her new sorceries.

So intent was Mombi on the treasures she had gained that when she turned the
bend in the road and caught a glimpse of the man, she merely nodded and
said:

"Good evening, sir."

But, a moment after, noting that the person did not move or reply, she cast
a shrewd glance into his face and discovered his pumpkin head elaborately
carved by Tip's jack-knife.

"Heh!" ejaculated Mombi, giving a sort of grunt; "that rascally boy has
been playing tricks again! Very good! ve--ry good! I'll beat him black-
and-blue for trying to scare me in this fashion!"

Angrily she raised her stick to smash in the grinning pumpkin head of the
dummy; but a sudden thought made her pause, the uplifted stick left
motionless in the air.

"Why, here is a good chance to try my new powder!" said she, eagerly. "And
then I can tell whether that crooked wizard has fairly traded secrets, or
whether he has fooled me as wickedly as I fooled him."



18

So she set down her basket and began fumbling in it for one of the precious
powders she had obtained.

While Mombi was thus occupied Tip strolled back, with his pockets full of
nuts, and discovered the old woman standing beside his man and apparently
not the least bit frightened by it.

At first he was generally disappointed; but the next moment he became
curious to know what Mombi was going to do. So he hid behind a hedge, where
he could see without being seen, and prepared to watch.

After some search the woman drew from her basket an old pepper-box, upon the
faded label of which the wizard had written with a lead-pencil:

"Powder of Life."

"Ah--here it is!" she cried, joyfully. "And now let us see if it is
potent. The stingy wizard didn't give me much of it, but I guess there's
enough for two or three doses."

Tip was much surprised when he overheard this speech. Then he saw old Mombi
raise her arm and sprinkle the powder from the box over the pumpkin head of
his man Jack. She did this in the same way one would pepper a baked potato,
and the powder sifted down from Jack's head and scattered



19               Full page line-art drawing.

               "OLD MOMBI DANCED AROUND HIM"



20
over the red shirt and pink waistcoat and purple trousers Tip had dressed
him in, and a portion even fell upon the patched and worn shoes.

Then, putting the pepper-box back into the basket, Mombi lifted her left
hand, with its little finger pointed upward, and said:

"Weaugh!"

Then she lifted her right hand, with the thumb pointed upward, and said:

"Teaugh!"

Then she lifted both hands, with all the fingers and thumbs spread out, and
cried:

"Peaugh!"

Jack Pumpkinhead stepped back a pace, at this, and said in a reproachful
voice:

"Don't yell like that! Do you think I'm deaf?"

Old Mombi danced around him, frantic with delight.

"He lives!" she screamed: "He lives! he lives!"

Then she threw her stick into the air and caught it as it came down; and she
hugged herself with both arms, and tried to do a step of a jig; and all the
time she repeated, rapturously:

"He lives!--he lives!--he lives!"

Now you may well suppose that Tip observed all this with amazement.



21

At first he was so frightened and horrified that he wanted to run away, but
his legs trembled and shook so badly that he couldn't. Then it struck him as
a very funny thing for Jack to come to life, especially as the expression on
his pumpkin face was so droll and comical it excited laughter on the
instant. So, recovering from his first fear, Tip began to laugh; and the
merry peals reached old Mombi's ears and made her hobble quickly to the
hedge, where she seized Tip's collar and dragged him back to where she had
left her basket and the pumpkinheaded man.

"You naughty, sneaking, wicked boy!" she exclaimed, furiously: "I'll teach
you to spy out my secrets and to make fun of me!"

"I wasn't making fun of you," protested Tip. "I was laughing at old
Pumpkinhead! Look at him! Isn't he a picture, though?"

"I hope you are not reflecting on my personal appearance," said Jack; and it
was so funny to hear his grave voice, while his face continued to wear its
jolly smile, that Tip again burst into a peal of laughter.

Even Mombi was not without a curious interest in the man her magic had
brought to life; for, after staring at him intently, she presently asked:



22               Full page line-art drawing.

               OLD MOMBI PUTS JACK IN THE STABLE



23

"What do you know?"

"Well, that is hard to tell," replied Jack. "For although I feel that I
know a tremendous lot, I am not yet aware how much there is in the world to
find out about. It will take me a little time to discover whether I am very
wise or very foolish."

"To be sure," said Mombi, thoughtfully.

"But what are you going to do with him, now he is alive?" asked Tip,
wondering.

"I must think it over," answered Mombi. "But we must get home at once, for
it is growing dark. Help the Pumpkinhead to walk."

"Never mind me," said Jack; "I can walk as well as you can. Haven't I got
legs and feet, and aren't they jointed?"

"Are they?" asked the woman, turning to Tip.

"Of course they are; I made 'em myself," returned the boy, with pride.

So they started for the house, but when they reached the farm yard old
Mombi led the pumpkin man to the cow stable and shut him up in an empty
stall, fastening the door securely on the outside.

"I've got to attend to you, first," she said, nodding her head at Tip.

Hearing this, the boy became uneasy; for he



24
knew Mombi had a bad and revengeful heart, and would not hesitate to do any
evil thing.

They entered the house. It was a round, domeshaped structure, as are nearly
all the farm houses in the Land of Oz.

Mombi bade the boy light a candle, while she put her basket in a cupboard
and hung her cloak on a peg. Tip obeyed quickly, for he was afraid of her.

After the candle had been lighted Mombi ordered him to build a fire in the
hearth, and while Tip was thus engaged the old woman ate her supper. When
the flames began to crackle the boy came to her and asked a share of the
bread and cheese; but Mombi refused him.

"I'm hungry!" said Tip, in a sulky tone.

"You won't be hungry long," replied Mombi, with a grim look.

The boy didn't like this speech, for it sounded like a threat; but he
happened to remember he had nuts in his pocket, so he cracked some of those
and ate them while the woman rose, shook the crumbs from her apron, and hung
above the fire a small black kettle.

Then she measured out equal parts of milk and vinegar and poured them into
the kettle. Next she



25
produced several packets of herbs and powders and began adding a portion of
each to the contents of the kettle. Occasionally she would draw near the
candle and read from a yellow paper the recipe of the mess she was
concocting.

As Tip watched her his uneasiness increased.

"What is that for?" he asked.

"For you," returned Mombi, briefly.

Tip wriggled around upon his stool and stared awhile at the kettle, which
was beginning to bubble. Then he would glance at the stern and wrinkled
features of the witch and wish he were any place but in that dim and smoky
kitchen, where even the shadows cast by the candle upon the wall were enough
to give one the horrors. So an hour passed away, during which the silence
was only broken by the bubbling of the pot and the hissing of the flames.

Finally, Tip spoke again.

"Have I got to drink that stuff?" he asked, nodding toward the pot.

"Yes," said Mombi.

"What'll it do to me?" asked Tip.

"If it's properly made," replied Mombi, "it will change or transform you
into a marble statue."

Tip groaned, and wiped the perspiration from his forehead with his sleeve.



26

"I don't want to be a marble statue!" he protested.

"That doesn't matter I want you to be one," said the old woman, looking at
him severely.

"What use'll I be then?" asked Tip. "There won't be any one to work for
you."

"I'll make the Pumpkinhead work for me," said Mombi.

Again Tip groaned.

"Why don't you change me into a goat, or a chicken?" he asked, anxiously.
"You can't do anything with a marble statue."

"Oh, yes, I can," returned Mombi. "I'm going to plant a flower garden, next
Spring, and I'll put you in the middle of it, for an ornament. I wonder I
haven't thought of that before; you've been a bother to me for years."

At this terrible speech Tip felt the beads of perspiration starting all
over his body, but he sat still and shivered and looked anxiously at the
kettle.

"Perhaps it won't work," he mutttered, in a voice that sounded weak and
discouraged.

"Oh, I think it will," answered Mombi, cheerfully. "I seldom make a
mistake."

Again there was a period of silence a silence so long and gloomy that when
Mombi finally lifted the kettle from the fire it was close to midnight.



27               Full page line-art drawing.

               "I DON'T WANT TO BE A MARBLE STATUE."



28

"You cannot drink it until it has become quite cold," announced the old
witch for in spite of the law she had acknowledged practising witchcraft.
"We must both go to bed now, and at daybreak I will call you and at once
complete your transformation into a marble statue."

With this she hobbled into her room, bearing the steaming kettle with her,
and Tip heard her close and lock the door.

The boy did not go to bed, as he had been commanded to do, but still sat
glaring at the embers of the dying fire.

               Line-Art Drawing



29               The Flight of the Fugitives


Tip reflected.

"It's a hard thing, to be a marble statue," he thought, rebelliously, "and
I'm not going to stand it. For years I've been a bother to her, she says; so
she's going to get rid of me. Well, there's an easier way than to become a
statue. No boy could have any fun forever standing in the middle of a flower
garden! I'll run away, that's what I'll do--and I may as well go before
she makes me drink that nasty stuff in the kettle." He waited until the
snores of the old witch announced she was fast asleep, and then he arose
softly and went to the cupboard to find something to eat.



30

"No use starting on a journey without food," he decided, searching upon the
narrow shelves.

He found some crusts of bread; but he had to look into Mombi's basket to
find the cheese she had brought from the village. While turning over the
contents of the basket he came upon the pepper-box which contained the
"Powder of Life."

"I may as well take this with me," he thought, "or Mombi'll be using it to
make more mischief with." So he put the box in his pocket, together with the
bread and cheese.

Then he cautiously left the house and latched the door behind him. Outside
both moon and stars shone brightly, and the night seemed peaceful and
inviting after the close and ill-smelling kitchen.

"I'll be glad to get away," said Tip, softly; "for I never did like that old
woman. I wonder how I ever came to live with her."

He was walking slowly toward the road when a thought made him pause.

"I don't like to leave Jack Pumpkinhead to the tender mercies of old Mombi,"
he muttered. "And Jack belongs to me, for I made him even if the old witch
did bring him to life."

He retraced his steps to the cow-stable and opened the door of the stall
where the pumpkin-



31               Full page line-art drawing.

               "TIP LED HIM ALONG THE PATH."



32
headed man had been left.

Jack was standing in the middle of the stall, and by the moonlight Tip could
see he was smiling just as jovially as ever.

"Come on!" said the boy, beckoning.

"Where to?" asked Jack.

"You'll know as soon as I do," answered Tip, smiling sympathetically into
the pumpkin face.

"All we've got to do now is to tramp."

"Very well," returned Jack, and walked awkwardly out of the stable and into
the moonlight.

Tip turned toward the road and the man followed him. Jack walked with a sort
of limp, and occasionally one of the joints of his legs would turn backward,
instead of frontwise, almost causing him to tumble. But the Pumpkinhead was
quick to notice this, and began to take more pains to step carefully; so
that he met with few accidents.

Tip led him along the path without stopping an instant. They could not go
very fast, but they walked steadily; and by the time the moon sank away and
the sun peeped over the hills they had travelled so great a distance that
the boy had no reason to fear pursuit from the old witch. Moreover, he had
turned first into one path, and then into another, so that should anyone
follow them it



33
would prove very difficult to guess which way they had gone, or where to
seek them.

Fairly satisfied that he had escaped--for a time, at least--being turned
into a marble statue, the boy stopped his companion and seated himself upon
a rock by the roadside.

"Let's have some breakfast," he said.

Jack Pumpkinhead watched Tip curiously, but refused to join in the repast.
"I don't seem to be made the same way you are," he said.

"I know you are not," returned Tip; "for I made you."

"Oh! Did you?" asked Jack.

"Certainly. And put you together. And carved your eyes and nose and ears and

               Line-Art Drawing along the right side of the page



34

mouth," said Tip proudly. "And dressed you."

Jack looked at his body and limbs critically.

"It strikes me you made a very good job of it," he remarked.

"Just so-so," replied Tip, modestly; for he began to see certain defects in
the construction of his man. "If I'd known we were going to travel together
I might have been a little more particular."

"Why, then," said the Pumpkinhead, in a tone that expressed surprise, "you
must be my creator my parent my father!"

"Or your inventor," replied the boy with a laugh. "Yes, my son; I really
believe I am!"

"Then I owe you obedience," continued the man, "and you owe me--support."

"That's it, exactly", declared Tip, jumping up. "So let us be off."

"Where are we going?" asked Jack, when they had resumed their journey.

"I'm not exactly sure," said the boy; "but I believe we are headed South,
and that will bring us, sooner or later, to the Emerald City."

"What city is that?" enquired the Pumpkinhead.

"Why, it's the center of the Land of Oz, and the biggest town in all the
country. I've never been there, myself, but I've heard all about its



35
history. It was built by a mighty and wonderful Wizard named Oz, and
everything there is of a green color--just as everything in this Country
of the Gillikins is of a purple color."

"Is everything here purple?" asked Jack.

"Of course it is. Can't you see?" returned the boy.

"I believe I must be color-blind," said the Pumpkinhead, after staring about
him.

"Well, the grass is purple, and the trees are purple, and the houses and
fences are purple," explained Tip. "Even the mud in the roads is purple. But
in the Emerald City everything is green that is purple here. And in the
Country of the Munchkins, over at the East, everything is blue; and in the
South country of the Quadlings everything is red; and in the West country of
the Winkies, where the Tin Woodman rules, everything is yellow."

"Oh!" said Jack. Then, after a pause, he asked: "Did you say a Tin Woodman
rules the Winkies?"

"Yes; he was one of those who helped Dorothy to destroy the Wicked Witch of
the West, and the Winkies were so grateful that they invited him to become
their ruler,--just as the people of the Emerald City invited the Scarecrow
to rule them."

"Dear me!" said Jack. "I'm getting confused with all this history. Who is
the Scarecrow?"



36

"Another friend of Dorothy's," replied Tip.

"And who is Dorothy?"

"She was a girl that came here from Kansas, a place in the big, outside
World. She got blown to the Land of Oz by a cyclone, and while she was here
the Scarecrow and the Tin Woodman accompanied her on her travels."

"And where is she now?" inquired the Pumpkinhead.

"Glinda the Good, who rules the Quadlings, sent her home again," said the
boy.

"Oh. And what became of the Scarecrow?"

"I told you. He rules the Emerald City," answered Tip.

"I thought you said it was ruled by a wonderful Wizard," objected Jack,
seeming more and more confused.

"Well, so I did. Now, pay attention, and I'll explain it," said Tip,
speaking slowly and looking the smiling Pumpkinhead squarely in the eye.
"Dorothy went to the Emerald City to ask the Wizard to send her back to
Kansas; and the Scarecrow and the Tin Woodman went with her. But the Wizard
couldn't send her back, because he wasn't so much of a Wizard as he might
have been. And then they got angry at the Wizard, and threatened



37
to expose him; so the Wizard made a big balloon and escaped in it, and
no one has ever seen him since."

"Now, that is very interesting history," said Jack, well pleased; "and I
understand it perfectly all but the explanation."

"I'm glad you do," responded Tip. "After the Wizard was gone, the people of
the Emerald City made His Majesty, the Scarecrow, their King; "and I have
heard that he became a very popular ruler."

"Are we going to see this queer King?" asked Jack, with interest.

"I think we may as well," replied the boy; "unless you have something better
to do."

"Oh, no, dear father," said the Pumpkinhead. "I am quite willing to go
wherever you please."

               Line-Art Drawing



38               Full page line-art drawing.



39               Tip Makes an Experiment in Magic


The boy, small and rather delicate in appearance seemed somewhat embarrassed
at being called "father" by the tall, awkward, pumpkinheaded man, but to
deny the relationship would involve another long and tedious explanation; so
he changed the subject by asking, abruptly:

"Are you tired?"

"Of course not!" replied the other. "But," he continued, after a pause, "it
is quite certain I shall  wear out my wooden joints if I keep on walking."

Tip reflected, as they journeyed on, that this was true. He began to regret
that he had not constructed the wooden limbs more carefully and
substantially. Yet how could he ever have guessed



40
that the man he had made merely to scare old Mombi with would be brought to
life by means of a magical powder contained in an old pepper-box?

So he ceased to reproach himself, and began to think how he might yet remedy
the deficiencies of Jack's weak joints.

While thus engaged they came to the edge of a wood, and the boy sat down to
rest upon an old sawhorse that some woodcutter had left there.

"Why don't you sit down?" he asked the Pumpkinhead.

"Won't it strain my joints?" inquired the other.

"Of course not. It'll rest them," declared the boy.

So Jack tried to sit down; but as soon as he bent his joints farther than
usual they gave way altogether, and he came clattering to the ground with
such a crash that Tip feared he was entirely ruined.

               Line-Art Drawing along right side of this page



41

He rushed to the man, lifted him to his feet, straightened his arms and
legs, and felt of his head to see if by chance it had become cracked. But
Jack seemed to be in pretty good shape, after all, and Tip said to him:

"I guess you'd better remain standing, hereafter. It seems the safest way."

"Very well, dear father." just as you say, replied the smiling Jack, who had
been in no wise confused by his tumble.

Tip sat down again. Presently the Pumpkinhead asked:

"What is that thing you are sitting on?"

"Oh, this is a horse," replied the boy, carelessly.

"What is a horse?" demanded Jack.

"A horse? Why, there are two kinds of horses," returned Tip, slightly
puzzled how to explain. "One kind of horse is alive, and has four legs and a
head and a tail. And people ride upon its back."

"I understand," said Jack, cheerfully "That's the kind of horse you are now
sitting on."

"No, it isn't," answered Tip, promptly.

"Why not? That one has four legs, and a head, and a tail." Tip looked at the
saw-horse more carefully, and found that the Pumpkinhead was right. The body



42
had been formed from a tree-trunk, and a branch had been left sticking up at
one end that looked very much like a tail. In the other end were two big
knots that resembled eyes, and a place had been chopped away that might
easily be mistaken for the horse's mouth. As for the legs, they were four
straight limbs cut from trees and stuck fast into the body, being spread
wide apart so that the saw-horse would stand firmly when a log was laid
across it to be sawed.

"This thing resembles a real horse more than I imagined," said Tip, trying
to explain. "But a real horse is alive, and trots and prances and eats oats,
while this is nothing more than a dead horse, made of wood, and used to saw
logs upon."

"If it were alive, wouldn't it trot, and prance, and eat oats?" inquired the
Pumpkinhead.

"It would trot and prance, perhaps; but it wouldn't eat oats," replied the
boy, laughing at the idea." And of course it can't ever be alive, because it
is made of wood."

"So am I," answered the man.

Tip looked at him in surprise.

"Why, so you are!" he exclaimed. "And the magic powder that brought you to
life is here in my pocket."



43               Full page line-art drawing.

               THE MAGICAL POWDER OF LIFE



44

He brought out the pepper box, and eyed it curiously.

"I wonder," said he, musingly, "if it would bring the saw-horse to life."

"If it would," returned Jack, calmly for nothing seemed to surprise him" I
could ride on its back, and that would save my joints from wearing out."

"I'll try it!" cried the boy, jumping up. "But I wonder if I can remember
the words old Mombi said, and the way she held her hands up."

He thought it over for a minute, and as he had watched carefully from the
hedge every motion of the old witch, and listened to her words, he believed
he could repeat exactly what she had said and done.

So he began by sprinkling some of the magic Powder of Life from the pepper-
box upon the body of the saw-horse. Then he lifted his left hand, with the
little finger pointing upward, and said: "Weaugh!"

"What does that mean, dear father?" asked Jack, curiously.

"I don't know," answered Tip. Then he lifted his right hand, with the thumb
pointing upward and said: "Teaugh!"

"What's that, dear father?" inquired Jack.



45

"It means you must keep quiet!" replied the boy, provoked at being
interrupted at so important a moment.

"How fast I am learning!" remarked the Pumpkinhead, with his eternal smile.

Tip now lifted both hands above his head, with all the fingers and thumbs
spread out, and cried in a loud voice: "Peaugh!"

Immediately the saw-horse moved, stretched its legs, yawned with its
chopped-out mouth, and shook a few grains of the powder off its back. The
rest of the powder seemed to have vanished into the body of the horse.

"Good!" called Jack, while the boy looked on in astonishment. "You are a
very clever sorcerer, dear father!"

               Line-Art Drawing



46               Full page line-art drawing.



47               The Awakening of the Saw-horse


The Saw-Horse, finding himself alive, seemed even more astonished than Tip.
He rolled his knotty eyes from side to side, taking a first wondering view
of the world in which he had now so important an existence. Then he tried to
look at himself; but he had, indeed, no neck to turn; so that in the
endeavor to see his body he kept circling around and around, without
catching even a glimpse of it. His legs were stiff and awkward, for there
were no knee-joints in them; so that presently he bumped against Jack
Pumpkinhead and sent that personage tumbling upon the moss that lined the
roadside.



48

Tip became alarmed at this accident, as well as at the persistence of the
Saw-Horse in prancing around in a circle; so he called out:

"Whoa! Whoa, there!"

The Saw-Horse paid no attention whatever to this command, and the next
instant brought one of his wooden legs down upon Tip's foot so forcibly that
the boy danced away in pain to a safer distance, from where he again yelled:

"Whoa! Whoa, I say!"

Jack had now managed to raise himself to a sitting position, and he looked
at the Saw-Horse with much interest.

"I don't believe the animal can hear you," he remarked.

"I shout loud enough, don't I?" answered Tip, angrily.

"Yes; but the horse has no ears," said the smiling Pumpkinhead.

"Sure enough!" exclaimed Tip, noting the fact for the first time. "How,
then, am I going to stop him?"

But at that instant the Saw-Horse stopped himself, having concluded it was
impossible to see his own body. He saw Tip, however, and came close to the
boy to observe him more fully.



49

It was really comical to see the creature walk; for it moved the legs on its
right side together, and those on its left side together, as a pacing horse
does; and that made its body rock sidewise, like a cradle.

Tip patted it upon the head, and said "Good boy! Good Boy!" in a coaxing
tone; and the Saw-Horse pranced away to examine with its bulging eyes the
form of Jack Pumpkinhead.

"I must find a halter for him," said Tip; and having made a search in his
pocket he produced a roll of strong cord. Unwinding this, he approached the
Saw-Horse and tied the cord around its neck, afterward fastening the other
end to a large tree. The Saw-Horse, not understanding the action, stepped
backward and snapped the string easily; but it made no attempt to run away.

"He's stronger than I thought," said the boy, "and rather obstinate, too."

"Why don't you make him some ears?" asked Jack. "Then you can tell him what
to do."

"That's a splendid idea!" said Tip. "How did you happen to think of it?"

"Why, I didn't think of it," answered the Pumpkinhead; "I didn't need to,
for it's the simplest and easiest thing to do."



50

So Tip got out his knife and fashioned some ears out of the bark of a small
tree.

"I mustn't make them too big," he said, as he whittled, "or our horse would
become a donkey."

"How is that?" inquired Jack, from the roadside.

"Why, a horse has bigger ears than a man; and a donkey has bigger ears than
a horse," explained Tip.

"Then, if my ears were longer, would I be a horse?" asked Jack.

"My friend," said Tip, gravely, "you'll never be anything but a Pumpkinhead,
no matter how big your ears are."

"Oh," returned Jack, nodding; "I think I understand."

"If you do, you're a wonder," remarked the boy  "but there's no harm in
thinking you understand. I guess these ears are ready now. Will you hold the
horse while I stick them on?"

"Certainly, if you'll help me up," said Jack.

So Tip raised him to his feet, and the Pumpkinhead went to the horse and
held its head while the boy bored two holes in it with his knife-blade and
inserted the ears.

"They make him look very handsome," said Jack, admiringly.



51

But those words, spoken close to the Saw-Horse, and being the first sounds
he had ever heard, so startled the animal that he made a bound forward and
tumbled Tip on one side and Jack on the other. Then he continued to rush
forward as if frightened by the clatter of his own foot-steps.

"Whoa!" shouted Tip, picking himself up; "whoa! you idiot whoa!" The Saw-
Horse would probably have paid no attention to this, but just then it
stepped a leg into a gopher-hole and stumbled head-over-heels to the ground,
where it lay upon its back, frantically waving its four legs in the air.

Tip ran up to it.

"You're a nice sort of a horse, I must say!" he exclaimed. "Why didn't you
stop when I yelled 'whoa?'"

"Does 'whoa' mean to stop?" asked the Saw-Horse, in a surprised voice, as it
rolled its eyes upward to look at the boy.

"Of course it does," answered Tip.

"And a hole in the ground means to stop, also, doesn't it?" continued the
horse.

"To be sure; unless you step over it," said Tip.

"What a strange place this is," the creature exclaimed, as if amazed. "What
am I doing here, anyway?"



52               Full page line-art drawing.

               "DO KEEP THOSE LEGS STILL."



53

"Why, I've brought you to life," answered the boy "but it won't hurt you
any, if you mind me and do as I tell you."

"Then I will do as you tell me," replied the Saw-Horse, humbly. "But what
happened to me, a moment ago? I don't seem to be just right, someway."

"You're upside down," explained Tip. "But just keep those legs still a
minute and I'll set you right side up again."

"How many sides have I?" asked the creature, wonderingly.

"Several," said Tip, briefly. "But do keep those legs still."

The Saw-Horse now became quiet, and held its legs rigid; so that Tip, after
several efforts, was able to roll him over and set him upright.

"Ah, I seem all right now," said the queer animal, with a sigh.

"One of your ears is broken," Tip announced, after a careful examination.
"I'll have to make a new one."

Then he led the Saw-Horse back to where Jack was vainly struggling to regain
his feet, and after assisting the Pumpkinhead to stand upright Tip whittled
out a new ear and fastened it to the horse's head.



54

"Now," said he, addressing his steed, "pay attention to what I'm going to
tell you. 'Whoa!' means to stop; 'Get-Up!' means to walk forward; 'Trot!'
means to go as fast as you can. Understand?"

"I believe I do," returned the horse.

"Very good. We are all going on a journey to the Emerald City, to see His
Majesty, the Scarecrow; and Jack Pumpkinhead is going to ride on your back,
so he won't wear out his joints."

"I don't mind," said the Saw-Horse. "Anything that suits you suits me."

Then Tip assisted Jack to get upon the horse.

"Hold on tight," he cautioned, "or you may fall off and crack your pumpkin
head."

"That would be horrible!" said Jack, with a shudder. "What shall I hold on
to?"

"Why, hold on to his ears," replied Tip, after a moment's hesitation.

"Don't do that!" remonstrated the Saw-Horse; "for then I can't hear."

That seemed reasonable, so Tip tried to think of something else.

"I'll fix it!" said he, at length. He went into the wood and cut a short
length of limb from a young, stout tree. One end of this he sharpened to a
point, and then he dug a hole in the back of



55               Full page line-art drawing.

               "DOES IT HURT?" ASKED THE BOY



56
the Saw-Horse, just behind its head. Next he brought a piece of rock from
the road and hammered the post firmly into the animal's back.

"Stop! Stop!" shouted the horse; "you're jarring me terribly."

"Does it hurt?" asked the boy.

"Not exactly hurt," answered the animal; "but it makes me quite nervous to
be jarred."

"Well, it's all over now" said Tip, encouragingly. "Now, Jack, be sure to
hold fast to this post and then you can't fall off and get smashed."

So Jack held on tight, and Tip said to the horse:

"Get up."

The obedient creature at once walked forward, rocking from side to side as
he raised his feet from the ground.

Tip walked beside the Saw-Horse, quite content with this addition to their
party. Presently he began to whistle.

"What does that sound mean?" asked the horse.

"Don't pay any attention to it," said Tip. "I'm just whistling, and that
only means I'm pretty well satisfied."

"I'd whistle myself, if I could push my lips together," remarked Jack. "I
fear, dear father, that in some respects I am sadly lacking."



57

After journeying on for some distance the narrow path they were following
turned into a broad roadway, paved with yellow brick. By the side of the
road Tip noticed a sign-post that read:

             "NINE MILES TO THE EMERALD CITY."


But it was now growing dark, so he decided to camp for the night by the
roadside and to resume the journey next morning by daybreak. He led the Saw-
Horse to a grassy mound upon which grew several bushy trees, and carefully
assisted the Pumpkinhead to alight.

"I think I'll lay you upon the ground, overnight," said the boy. "You will
be safer that way."

"How about me?" asked the Saw-Horse.

"It won't hurt you to stand," replied Tip; "and, as you can't sleep, you may
as well watch out and see that no one comes near to disturb us."

Then the boy stretched himself upon the grass beside the Pumpkinhead, and
being greatly wearied by the journey was soon fast asleep.

               Line-Art Drawing



58               Full page line-art drawing.



59               Jack Pumpkinhead's Ride to the Emerald City


At daybreak Tip was awakened by the Pumpkinhead. He rubbed the sleep from
his eyes, bathed in a little brook, and then ate a portion of his bread and
cheese. Having thus prepared for a new day the boy said:

"Let us start at once. Nine miles is quite a distance, but we ought to reach
the Emerald City by noon if no accidents happen." So the Pumpkinhead was
again perched upon the back of the Saw-Horse and the journey was resumed.

Tip noticed that the purple tint of the grass and trees had now faded to a
dull lavender, and before long this lavender appeared to take on a greenish
tinge that gradually brightened as they drew nearer to the great City where
the Scarecrow ruled.



60

The little party had traveled but a short two miles upon their way when the
road of yellow brick was parted by a broad and swift river. Tip was puzzled
how to cross over; but after a time he discovered a man in a ferry-boat
approaching from the other side of the stream.

When the man reached the bank Tip asked:

"Will you row us to the other side?"

"Yes, if you have money," returned the ferryman, whose face looked cross and
disagreeable.

"But I have no money," said Tip.

"None at all?" inquired the man.

"None at all," answered the boy.

"Then I'll not break my back rowing you over," said the ferryman, decidedly.

"What a nice man!" remarked the Pumpkinhead, smilingly.

The ferryman stared at him, but made no reply. Tip was trying to think, for
it was a great disappointment to him to find his journey so suddenly brought
to an end.

"I must certainly get to the Emerald City," he said to the boatman; "but how
can I cross the river if you do not take me?"

The man laughed, and it was not a nice laugh.

"That wooden horse will float," said he; "and



61               Line-Art Drawing

you can ride him across. As for the pumpkinheaded loon who accompanies you,
let him sink or swim it won't matter greatly which."

"Don't worry about me," said Jack, smiling pleasantly upon the crabbed
ferryman; "I'm sure I ought to float beautifully."

Tip thought the experiment was worth making, and the Saw-Horse, who did not
know what danger meant, offered no objections whatever. So the boy led it
down into the water and climbed upon its back. Jack also waded in up to his
knees and



62
grasped the tail of the horse so that he might keep his pumpkin head above
the water.

"Now," said Tip, instructing the Saw-Horse, "if you wiggle your legs you
will probably swim; and if you swim we shall probably reach the other side."

The Saw-Horse at once began to wiggle its legs, which acted as oars and
moved the adventurers slowly across the river to the opposite side. So
successful was the trip that presently they were climbing, wet and dripping,
up the grassy bank.

Tip's trouser-legs and shoes were thoroughly soaked; but the Saw-Horse had
floated so perfectly that from his knees up the boy was entirely dry. As for
the Pumpkinhead, every stitch of his gorgeous clothing dripped water.

"The sun will soon dry us," said Tip "and, anyhow, we are now safely across,
in spite of the ferryman, and can continue our journey.

"I didn't mind swimming, at all," remarked the horse.

"Nor did I," added Jack.

They soon regained the road of yellow brick, which proved to be a
continuation of the road they had left on the other side, and then Tip once
more mounted the Pumpkinhead upon the back of the Saw-Horse.



63

"If you ride fast," said he, "the wind will help to dry your clothing. I
will hold on to the horse's tail and run after you. In this way we all will
become dry in a very short time."

"Then the horse must step lively," said Jack.

"I'll do my best," returned the Saw-Horse, cheerfully.

Tip grasped the end of the branch that served as tail to the Saw-Horse, and
called loudly: "Get-up!"

The horse started at a good pace, and Tip followed behind. Then he decided
they could go faster, so he shouted: "Trot!"

Now, the Saw-Horse remembered that this word was the command to go as fast
as he could; so he began rocking along the road at a tremendous pace,

               Line-Art Drawing



64
and Tip had hard work--running faster than he ever had before in his
life--to keep his feet.

Soon he was out of breath, and although he wanted to call "Whoa!" to the
horse, he found he could not get the word out of his throat. Then the end of
the tail he was clutching, being nothing more than a dead branch, suddenly
broke away, and the next minute the boy was rolling in the dust of the road,
while the horse and its pumpkin-headed rider dashed on and quickly
disappeared in the distance.

By the time Tip had picked himself up and cleared the dust from his throat
so he could say "Whoa!" there was no further need of saying it, for the
horse was long since out of sight.

So he did the only sensible thing he could do. He sat down and took a good
rest, and afterward began walking along the road.

"Some time I will surely overtake them," he reflected; "for the road will
end at the gates of the Emerald City, and they can go no further than that."

Meantime Jack was holding fast to the post and the Saw-Horse was tearing
along the road like a racer. Neither of them knew Tip was left behind, for
the Pumpkinhead did not look around and the Saw-Horse couldn't.

As he rode, Jack noticed that the grass and trees



65
had become a bright emerald-green in color, so he guessed they were nearing
the Emerald City even before the tall spires and domes came into sight.

At length a high wall of green stone, studded thick with emeralds, loomed up
before them; and fearing the Saw-Horse would not know enough to stop and so
might smash them both against this wall, Jack ventured to cry "Whoa!" as
loud as he could.

So suddenly did the horse obey that had it not been for his post Jack would
have been pitched off head foremost, and his beautiful face ruined.

"That was a fast ride, dear father!" he exclaimed; and then, hearing no
reply, he turned around and discovered for the first time that Tip was not
there.

This apparent desertion puzzled the Pumpkinhead, and made him uneasy. And
while he was wondering what had become of the boy, and what he ought to do
next under such trying circumstances, the gateway in the green wall opened
and a man came out.

This man was short and round, with a fat face that seemed remarkably good-
natured. He was clothed all in green and wore a high, peaked green hat upon
his head and green spectacles over his eyes. Bowing before the Pumpkinhead
he said:

"I am the Guardian of the Gates of the Emerald



66
City. May I inquire who you are, and what is your business?"

"My name is Jack Pumpkinhead," returned the other, smilingly; "but as to my
business, I haven't the least idea in the world what it is."

The Guardian of the Gates looked surprised, and shook his head as if
dissatisfied with the reply.

"What are you, a man or a pumpkin?" he asked, politely.

"Both, if you please," answered Jack.

"And this wooden horse--is it alive?" questioned the Guardian.

The horse rolled one knotty eye upward and winked at Jack. Then it gave a
prance and brought one leg down on the Guardian's toes.

"Ouch!" cried the man; "I'm sorry I asked that question. But the answer is
most convincing. Have you any errand, sir, in the Emerald City?"

"It seems to me that I have," replied the Pumpkinhead, seriously; "but I
cannot think what it is. My father knows all about it, but he is not here."

"This is a strange affair very strange!" declared the Guardian. "But you
seem harmless. Folks do not smile so delightfully when they mean mischief."

"As for that," said Jack, "I cannot help my smile, for it is carved on my
face with a jack-knife."



67

"Well, come with me into my room," resumed the Guardian, "and I will see
what can be done for you."

So Jack rode the Saw-Horse through the gateway into a little room built into
the wall. The Guardian pulled a bell-cord, and presently a very tall
soldier--clothed in a green uniform--entered from the opposite door. This
soldier carried a long green gun over his shoulder and had lovely green
whiskers that fell quite to his knees. The Guardian at once addressed him,
saying:

"Here is a strange gentleman who doesn't know why he has come to the Emerald
City, or what he wants. Tell me, what shall we do with him?"

The Soldier with the Green Whiskers looked at Jack with much care and
curiosity. Finally he shook his head so positively that little waves rippled
down his whiskers, and then he said:

"I must take him to His Majesty, the Scarecrow."

But what will His Majesty, the Scarecrow, do with him?" asked the Guardian
of the Gates.

"That is His Majesty's business," returned the soldier. "I have troubles
enough of my own. All outside troubles must be turned over to His Majesty.
So put the spectacles on this fellow, and I'll take him to the royal
palace."



68

So the Guardian opened a big box of spectacles and tried to fit a pair to
Jack's great round eyes.

"I haven't a pair in stock that will really cover those eyes up," said the
little man, with a sigh; "and your head is so big that I shall be obliged to
tie the spectacles on."

"But why need I wear spectacles?" asked Jack.

"It's the fashion here," said the Soldier, "and they will keep you from
being blinded by the glitter and glare of the gorgeous Emerald City."

"Oh!" exclaimed Jack. "Tie them on, by all means. I don't wish to be
blinded."

"Nor I!" broke in the Saw-Horse; so a pair of green spectacles was quickly
fastened over the bulging knots that served it for eyes.

Then the Soldier with the Green Whiskers led them through the inner gate and
they at once found themselves in the main street of the magnificent Emerald
City.

Sparkling green gems ornamented the fronts of the beautiful houses and the
towers and turrets were all faced with emeralds. Even the green marble
pavement glittered with precious stones, and it was indeed a grand and
marvelous sight to one who beheld it for the first time.

However, the Pumpkinhead and the Saw-Horse,



69
knowing nothing of wealth and beauty, paid little attention to the wonderful
sights they saw through their green spectacles. They calmly followed after
the green soldier and scarcely noticed the crowds of green people who stared
at them in surprise. When a green dog ran out and barked at them the Saw-
Horse promptly kicked at it with its wooden leg and sent the little animal
howling into one of the houses; but nothing more serious than this happened
to interrupt their progress to the royal palace.

The Pumpkinhead wanted to ride up the green marble steps and straight into
the Scarecrow's presence; but the soldier would not permit that. So Jack
dismounted, with much difficulty, and a servant led the Saw-Horse around to
the rear while the Soldier with the Green Whiskers escorted the Pumpkinhead
into the palace, by the front entrance.

The stranger was left in a handsomely furnished waiting room while the
soldier went to announce him. It so happened that at this hour His Majesty
was at leisure and greatly bored for want of something to do, so he ordered
his visitor to be shown at once into his throne room.

Jack felt no fear or embarrassment at meeting the ruler of this magnificent
city, for he was entirely ignorant of all worldly customs. But when he en-



70
tered the room and saw for the first time His Majesty the Scarecrow seated
upon his glittering throne, he stopped short in amazement.

                    Line-Art Drawing



71               His Majesty the Scarecrow


I suppose every reader of this book knows what a scarecrow is; but Jack
Pumpkinhead, never having seen such a creation, was more surprised at
meeting the remarkable King of the Emerald City than by any other one
experience of his brief life.

His Majesty the Scarecrow was dressed in a suit of faded blue clothes, and
his head was merely a small sack stuffed with straw, upon which eyes, ears,
a nose and a mouth had been rudely painted to represent a face. The clothes
were also stuffed with straw, and that so unevenly or carelessly that his
Majesty's legs and arms seemed more bumpy than was necessary. Upon his hands
were gloves with long fingers, and these were padded with cotton. Wisps of
straw stuck out from the monarch's



72
coat and also from his neck and boot-tops. Upon his head he wore a heavy
golden crown set thick with sparkling jewels, and the weight of this crown
caused his brow to sag in wrinkles, giving a thoughtful expression to the
painted face. Indeed, the crown alone betokened majesty; in all else the
Scarecrow King was but a simple scarecrow--flimsy, awkward, and
unsubstantial.

But if the strange appearance of his Majesty the Scarecrow seemed startling
to Jack, no less wonderful was the form of the Pumpkinhead to the Scarecrow.
The purple trousers and pink waistcoat and red shirt hung loosely over the
wooden joints Tip had manufactured, and the carved face on the pumpkin
grinned perpetually, as if its wearer considered life the jolliest thing
imaginable.

At first, indeed, His Majesty thought his queer visitor was laughing at him,
and was inclined to resent such a liberty; but it was not without reason
that the Scarecrow had attained the reputation of being the wisest personage
in the Land of Oz. He made a more careful examination of his visitor, and
soon discovered that Jack's features were carved into a smile and that he
could not look grave if he wished to.

The King was the first to speak. After regarding



73               Line-Art Drawing

Jack for some minutes he said, in a tone of wonder:

"Where on earth did you come from, and how do you happen to be alive?"

"I beg your Majesty's pardon," returned the Pumpkinhead; "but I do not
understand you."



74

"What don't you understand?" asked the Scarecrow.

"Why, I don't understand your language. You see, I came from the Country of
the Gillikins, so that I am a foreigner."

"Ah, to be sure!" exclaimed the Scarecrow. "I myself speak the language of
the Munchkins, which is also the language of the Emerald City. But you, I
suppose, speak the language of the Pumpkinheads?"

"Exactly so, your Majesty" replied the other, bowing; "so it will be
impossible for us to understand one another."

"That is unfortunate, certainly," said the Scarecrow, thoughtfully. "We must
have an interpreter."

"What is an interpreter?" asked Jack.

"A person who understands both my language and your own. When I say
anything, the interpreter can tell you what I mean; and when you say
anything the interpreter can tell me what you mean. For the interpreter can
speak both languages as well as understand them."

"That is certainly clever," said Jack, greatly pleased at finding so simple
a way out of the difficulty.

So the Scarecrow commanded the Soldier with the Green Whiskers to search
among his people



75
until he found one who understood the language of the Gillikins as well as
the language of the Emerald City, and to bring that person to him at once.

When the Soldier had departed the Scarecrow said:

"Won't you take a chair while we are waiting?"

"Your Majesty forgets that I cannot understand you," replied the
Pumpkinhead. "If you wish me to sit down you must make a sign for me to do
so." The Scarecrow came down from his throne and rolled an armchair to a
position behind the Pumpkinhead. Then he gave Jack a sudden push that sent
him sprawling upon the cushions in so awkward a fashion that he doubled up
like a jackknife, and had hard work to untangle himself.

"Did you understand that sign?" asked His Majesty, politely.

"Perfectly," declared Jack, reaching up his arms to turn his head to the
front, the pumpkin having twisted around upon the stick that supported it.

"You seem hastily made," remarked the Scarecrow, watching Jack's efforts to
straighten himself.

"Not more so than your Majesty," was the frank reply.

"There is this difference between us," said the Scarecrow, "that whereas I
will bend, but not break, you will break, but not bend."



76               Full page line-art drawing.

               "HE GAVE JACK A SUDDEN PUSH"



77

At this moment the soldier returned leading a young girl by the hand. She
seemed very sweet and modest, having a pretty face and beautiful green eyes
and hair. A dainty green silk skirt reached to her knees, showing silk
stockings embroidered with pea-pods, and green satin slippers with bunches
of lettuce for decorations instead of bows or buckles. Upon her silken waist
clover leaves were embroidered, and she wore a jaunty little jacket trimmed
with sparkling emeralds of a uniform size.

"Why, it's little Jellia Jamb!" exclaimed the Scarecrow, as the green maiden
bowed her pretty head before him. "Do you understand the language of the
Gillikins, my dear?"

"Yes, your Majesty," she answered, "for I was born in the North Country."

"Then you shall be our interpreter," said the Scarecrow, "and explain to
this Pumpkinhead all that I say, and also explain to me all that he says. Is
this arrangement satisfactory?" he asked, turning toward his guest.

"Very satisfactory indeed," was the reply.

"Then ask him, to begin with," resumed the Scarecrow, turning to Jellia,
"what brought him to the Emerald City."

But instead of this the girl, who had been staring at Jack, said to him:



78

"You are certainly a wonderful creature. Who made you?"

"A boy named Tip," answered Jack.

"What does he say?" inquired the Scarecrow. "My ears must have deceived me.
What did he say?"

"He says that your Majesty's brains seem to have come loose," replied the
girl, demurely.

The Scarecrow moved uneasily upon his throne, and felt of his head with his
left hand.

"What a fine thing it is to understand two different languages," he said,
with a perplexed sigh. "Ask him, my dear, if he has any objection to being
put in jail for insulting the ruler of the Emerald City."

"I didn't insult you!" protested Jack, indignantly.

"Tut--tut!" cautioned the Scarecrow "wait, until Jellia translates my
speech. What have we got an interpreter for, if you break out in this rash
way?"

"All right, I'll wait," replied the Pumpkinhead, in a surly tone--although
his face smiled as genially as ever. "Translate the speech, young woman."

"His Majesty inquires if you are hungry, said Jellia.

"Oh, not at all!" answered Jack, more pleasantly, "for it is impossible for
me to eat."

"It's the same way with me," remarked the Scarecrow. "What did he say,
Jellia, my dear?"



79

"He asked if you were aware that one of your eyes is painted larger than the
other," said the girl, mischievously.

"Don't you believe her, your Majesty, cried Jack.

"Oh, I don't," answered the Scarecrow, calmly. Then, casting a sharp look at
the girl, he asked:

"Are you quite certain you understand the languages of both the Gillikins
and the Munchkins?"

"Quite certain, your Majesty," said Jellia Jamb, trying hard not to laugh in
the face of royalty.

"Then how is it that I seem to understand them myself?" inquired the
Scarecrow.

"Because they are one and the same!" declared the girl, now laughing
merrily. "Does not your Majesty know that in all the land of Oz but one
language is spoken?"

"Is it indeed so?" cried the Scarecrow, much relieved to hear this; "then I
might easily have been my own interpreter!"

"It was all my fault, your Majesty," said Jack, looking rather foolish, "I
thought we must surely speak different languages, since we came from
different countries."

"This should be a warning to you never to think," returned the Scarecrow,
severely. "For



80
unless one can think wisely it is better to remain a dummy--which you most
certainly are."

"I am!--I surely am!" agreed the Pumpkinhead.

"It seems to me," continued the Scarecrow, more mildly, "that your
manufacturer spoiled some good pies to create an indifferent man."

"I assure your Majesty that I did not ask to be created," answered Jack.

"Ah! It was the same in my case," said the King, pleasantly. "And so, as we
differ from all ordinary people, let us become friends."

"With all my heart!" exclaimed Jack.

"What! Have you a heart?" asked the Scarecrow, surprised.

"No; that was only imaginative--I might say, a figure of speech," said the
other.

"Well, your most prominent figure seems to be a figure of wood; so I must
beg you to restrain an imagination which, having no brains, you have no
right to exercise," suggested the Scarecrow, warningly.

"To be sure!" said Jack, without in the least comprehending.

His Majesty then dismissed Jellia Jamb and the Soldier with the Green
Whiskers, and when they were gone he took his new friend by the arm and led
him into the courtyard to play a game of quoits.



81               Full page line-art drawing.



82               Full page line-art drawing.



83               Gen. Jinjur's Army of Revolt


Tip was so anxious to rejoin his man Jack and the Saw-Horse that he walked a
full half the distance to the Emerald City without stopping to rest. Then he
discovered that he was hungry and the crackers and cheese he had provided
for the Journey had all been eaten.

While wondering what he should do in this emergency he came upon a girl
sitting by the roadside. She wore a costume that struck the boy as being
remarkably brilliant: her silken waist being of emerald green and her skirt
of four distinct colors--blue in front, yellow at the left side, red at
the back and purple at the right side. Fastening



84
the waist in front were four buttons--the top one blue, the next yellow, a
third red and the last purple.


               Line-Art Drawing



The splendor of this dress was almost barbaric; so Tip was fully justified
in staring at the gown for some moments before his eyes were attracted by
the



85
pretty face above it. Yes, the face was pretty enough, he decided; but it
wore an expression of discontent coupled to a shade of defiance or audacity.

While the boy stared the girl looked upon him calmly. A lunch basket stood
beside her, and she held a dainty sandwich in one hand and a hard-boiled egg
in the other, eating with an evident appetite that aroused Tip's sympathy.

He was just about to ask a share of the luncheon when the girl stood up and
brushed the crumbs from her lap.

"There!" said she; "it is time for me to go. Carry that basket for me and
help yourself to its contents if you are hungry."

Tip seized the basket eagerly and began to eat, following for a time the
strange girl without bothering to ask questions. She walked along before him
with swift strides, and there was about her an air of decision and
importance that led him to suspect she was some great personage.

Finally, when he had satisfied his hunger, he ran up beside her and tried to
keep pace with her swift footsteps--a very difficult feat, for she was
much taller than he, and evidently in a hurry.

"Thank you very much for the sandwiches," said Tip, as he trotted along.
"May I ask your name?"



86

"I am General Jinjur," was the brief reply.

"Oh!" said the boy surprised. "What sort of a General?"

"I command the Army of Revolt in this war," answered the General, with
unnecessary sharpness.

"Oh!" he again exclaimed. "I didn't know there was a war."

"You were not supposed to know it," she returned, "for we have kept it a
secret; and considering that our army is composed entirely of girls," she
added, with some pride, "it is surely a remarkable thing that our Revolt is
not yet discovered."

"It is, indeed," acknowledged Tip. "But where is your army?"

"About a mile from here," said General Jinjur. "The forces have assembled
from all parts of the Land of Oz, at my express command. For this is the day
we are to conquer His Majesty the Scarecrow, and wrest from him the throne.
The Army of Revolt only awaits my coming to march upon the Emerald City."

"Well!" declared Tip, drawing a long breath, "this is certainly a surprising
thing! May I ask why you wish to conquer His Majesty the Scarecrow?"

"Because the Emerald City has been ruled by men long enough, for one
reason," said the girl.



87
"Moreover, the City glitters with beautiful gems, which might far better be
used for rings, bracelets and necklaces; and there is enough money in the
King's treasury to buy every girl in our Army a dozen new gowns. So we
intend to conquer the City and run the government to suit ourselves."

Jinjur spoke these words with an eagerness and decision that proved she was
in earnest.

"But war is a terrible thing," said Tip, thoughtfully.

"This war will be pleasant," replied the girl, cheerfully.

"Many of you will be slain!" continued the boy, in an awed voice.

"Oh, no", said Jinjur. "What man would oppose a girl, or dare to harm her?
And there is not an ugly face in my entire Army."

Tip laughed.

"Perhaps you are right," said he. "But the Guardian of the Gate is
considered a faithful Guardian, and the King's Army will not let the City be
conquered without a struggle."

"The Army is old and feeble," replied General Jinjur, scornfully. "His
strength has all been used to grow whiskers, and his wife has such a temper
that she has already pulled more than half of them



88
out by the roots. When the Wonderful Wizard reigned the Soldier with the
Green Whiskers was a very good Royal Army, for people feared the Wizard. But
no one is afraid of the Scarecrow, so his Royal Army don't count for much in
time of war."

After this conversation they proceeded some distance in silence, and before
long reached a large clearing in the forest where fully four hundred young
women were assembled. These were laughing and talking together as gaily as
if they had gathered for a picnic instead of a war of conquest.

They were divided into four companies, and Tip noticed that all were dressed
in costumes similar to that worn by General Jinjur. The only real difference
was that while those girls from the Munchkin country had the blue strip in
front of their skirts, those from the country of the Quadlings had the red
strip in front; and those from the country of the Winkies had the yellow
strip in front, and the Gillikin girls wore the purple strip in front. All
had green waists, representing the Emerald City they intended to conquer,
and the top button on each waist indicated by its color which country the
wearer came from. The uniforms were Jaunty and becoming, and quite effective
when massed together.

Tip thought this strange Army bore no weapons



89
whatever; but in this he was wrong. For each girl had stuck through the knot
of her back hair two long, glittering knitting-needles.

General Jinjur immediately mounted the stump of a tree and addressed her
army.

"Friends, fellow-citizens, and girls!" she said; "we are about to begin our
great Revolt against the men of Oz! We march to conquer the Emerald City--to
dethrone the Scarecrow King--to acquire thousands of gorgeous gems--to
rifle the royal treasury--and to obtain power over our former
oppressors!"

"Hurrah!" said those who had listened; but Tip thought most of the Army was
too much engaged in chattering to pay attention to the words of the General.

The command to march was now given, and the girls formed themselves into
four bands, or companies, and set off with eager strides toward the Emerald
City.

               Line-Art Drawing on the right of this page.



90               Line-Art Drawing


The boy followed after them, carrying several baskets and wraps and packages
which various members of the Army of Revolt had placed in his care. It was
not long before they came to the green granite walls of the City and halted
before the gateway.



91

The Guardian of the Gate at once came out and looked at them curiously, as
if a circus had come to town. He carried a bunch of keys swung round his
neck by a golden chain; his hands were thrust carelessly into his pockets,
and he seemed to have no idea at all that the City was threatened by rebels.
Speaking pleasantly to the girls, he said:

"Good morning, my dears! What can I do for you?"


               Line-Art Drawing



"Surrender instantly!" answered General Jinjur, standing before him and
frowning as terribly as her pretty face would allow her to.

"Surrender!" echoed the man, astounded. "Why, it's impossible. It's against
the law! I never heard of such a thing in my life."



92

"Still, you must surrender!" exclaimed the General, fiercely. "We are
revolting!"

"You don't look it," said the Guardian, gazing from one to another,
admiringly.

"But we are!" cried Jinjur, stamping her foot, impatiently; "and we mean to
conquer the Emerald City!"

"Good gracious!" returned the surprised Guardian of the Gates; "what a
nonsensical idea! Go home to your mothers, my good girls, and milk the cows
and bake the bread. Don't you know it's a dangerous thing to conquer a
city?"

"We are not afraid!" responded the General; and she looked so determined
that it made the Guardian uneasy.

So he rang the bell for the Soldier with the Green Whiskers, and the next
minute was sorry he had done so. For immediately he was surrounded by a
crowd of girls who drew the knitting-needles from their hair and began
Jabbing them at the Guardian with the sharp points dangerously near his fat
cheeks and blinking eyes.

The poor man howled loudly for mercy and made no resistance when Jinjur drew
the bunch of keys from around his neck.

Followed by her Army the General now rushed



93               Full page line-art drawing.

               GENERAL JINJUR AND HER ARMY CAPTURE THE CITY.



94
to the gateway, where she was confronted by the Royal Army of Oz--which
was the other name for the Soldier with the Green Whiskers.

"Halt!" he cried, and pointed his long gun full in the face of the leader.

Some of the girls screamed and ran back, but General Jinjur bravely stood
her ground and said, reproachfully:

"Why, how now? Would you shoot a poor, defenceless girl?"

"No," replied the soldier, "for my gun isn't loaded."

"Not loaded?"

"No; for fear of accidents. And I've forgotten where I hid the powder and
shot to load it with. But if you'll wait a short time I'll try to hunt them
up."

"Don't trouble yourself," said Jinjur, cheerfully. Then she turned to her
Army and cried:

"Girls, the gun isn't loaded!"

"Hooray," shrieked the rebels, delighted at this good news, and they
proceeded to rush upon the Soldier with the Green Whiskers in such a crowd
that it was a wonder they didn't stick the knitting-needles into one
another.

But the Royal Army of Oz was too much afraid



95
of women to meet the onslaught. He simply turned about and ran with all his
might through the gate and toward the royal palace, while General Jinjur and
her mob flocked into the unprotected City.

In this way was the Emerald City captured without a drop of blood being
spilled. The Army of Revolt had become an Army of Conquerors!


               Line-Art Drawing



96               Full page line-art drawing.



97               The Scarecrow Plans an escape


Tip slipped away from the girls and followed swiftly after the Soldier with
the Green Whiskers. The invading army entered the City more slowly, for they
stopped to dig emeralds out of the walls and paving-stones with the points
of their knitting-needles. So the Soldier and the boy reached the palace
before the news had spread that the City was conquered.

The Scarecrow and Jack Pumpkinhead were still playing at quoits in the
courtyard when the game was interrupted by the abrupt entrance of the Royal
Army of Oz, who came flying in without his hat or gun, his clothes in sad
disarray and his long beard floating a yard behind him as he ran.



98

"Tally one for me," said the Scarecrow, calmly "What's wrong, my man?" he
added, addressing the Soldier.

"Oh! your Majesty--your Majesty! The City is conquered!" gasped the Royal
Army, who was all out of breath.

"This is quite sudden," said the Scarecrow. "But please go and bar all the
doors and windows of the palace, while I show this Pumpkinhead how to throw
a quoit."

The Soldier hastened to do this, while Tip, who had arrived at his heels,
remained in the courtyard to look at the Scarecrow with wondering eyes.

His Majesty continued to throw the quoits as coolly as if no danger
threatened his throne, but the Pumpkinhead, having caught sight of Tip,
ambled toward the boy as fast as his wooden legs would go.

"Good afternoon, noble parent!" he cried, delightedly. "I'm glad to see you
are here. That terrible Saw-Horse ran away with me."

"I suspected it," said Tip. "Did you get hurt? Are you cracked at all?"

"No, I arrived safely," answered Jack, "and his Majesty has been very kind
indeed to me.

At this moment the Soldier with the Green Whiskers returned, and the
Scarecrow asked:



99

"By the way, who has conquered me?"

"A regiment of girls, gathered from the four corners of the Land of Oz,"
replied the Soldier, still pale with fear.

"But where was my Standing Army at the time?" inquired his Majesty, looking
at the Soldier, gravely.

"Your Standing Army was running," answered the fellow, honestly; "for no man
could face the terrible weapons of the invaders."

"Well," said the Scarecrow, after a moment's thought, "I don't mind much the
loss of my throne, for it's a tiresome job to rule over the Emerald City.
And this crown is so heavy that it makes my head ache. But I hope the
Conquerors have no intention of injuring me, just because I happen to be the
King."

"I heard them, say" remarked Tip, with some hesitation, "that they intend to
make a rag carpet of your outside and stuff their sofa-cushions with your
inside."

"Then I am really in danger," declared his Majesty, positively, "and it will
be wise for me to consider a means to escape."

"Where can you go?" asked Jack Pumpkinhead.

"Why, to my friend the Tin Woodman, who



100               Line-Art Drawing


rules over the Winkies, and calls himself their Emperor," was the answer. "I
am sure he will protect me."

Tip was looking out the window.

"The palace is surrounded by the enemy," said



101
he "It is too late to escape. They would soon tear you to pieces."

The Scarecrow sighed.

"In an emergency," he announced, "it is always a good thing to pause and
reflect. Please excuse me while I pause and reflect."

"But we also are in danger," said the Pumpkinhead, anxiously. "If any of
these girls understand cooking, my end is not far off!"

"Nonsense!" exclaimed the Scarecrow. "they're too busy to cook, even if they
know how!"

"But should I remain here a prisoner for any length of time," protested
Jack," I'm liable to spoil."

"Ah! then you would not be fit to associate with," returned the Scarecrow.
"The matter is more serious than I suspected."

"You," said the Pumpkinhead, gloomily, "are liable to live for many years.
My life is necessarily short. So I must take advantage of the few days that
remain to me."

"There, there! Don't worry," answered the Scarecrow soothingly; "if you'll
keep quiet long enough for me to think, I'll try to find some way for us all
to escape."

So the others waited in patient silence while the Scarecrow walked to a
corner and stood with his



102
face to the wall for a good five minutes. At the end of that time he faced
them with a more cheerful expression upon his painted face.

"Where is the Saw-Horse you rode here?" he asked the Pumpkinhead.

"Why, I said he was a jewel, and so your man locked him up in the royal
treasury," said Jack.

"It was the only place I could think of your Majesty," added the Soldier,
fearing he had made a blunder.

"It pleases me very much," said the Scarecrow. "Has the animal been fed?"

"Oh, yes; I gave him a heaping peck of sawdust."

"Excellent!" cried the Scarecrow. "Bring the horse here at once."

The Soldier hastened away, and presently they heard the clattering of the
horse's wooden legs upon the pavement as he was led into the courtyard.

His Majesty regarded the steed critically. "He doesn't seem especially
graceful!" he remarked, musingly. "but I suppose he can run?"

"He can, indeed," said Tip, gazing upon the Saw-Horse admiringly.

"Then, bearing us upon his back, he must make a dash through the ranks of
the rebels and carry us to my friend the Tin Woodman," announced the
Scarecrow.



103

"He can't carry four!" objected Tip.

"No, but he may be induced to carry three," said his Majesty. "I shall
therefore leave my Royal Army Behind. For, from the ease with which he was
conquered, I have little confidence in his powers."

"Still, he can run," declared Tip, laughing.

"I expected this blow" said the Soldier, sulkily; "but I can bear it. I
shall disguise myself by cutting off my lovely green whiskers. And, after
all, it is no more dangerous to face those reckless girls than to ride this
fiery, untamed wooden horse!"

"Perhaps you are right," observed his Majesty. "But, for my part, not being
a soldier, I am fond of danger. Now, my boy, you must mount first. And
please sit as close to the horse's neck as possible."

Tip climbed quickly to his place, and the Soldier and the Scarecrow managed
to hoist the Pumpkinhead to a seat just behind him. There remained so little
space for the King that he was liable to fall off as soon as the horse
started.

"Fetch a clothesline," said the King to his Army, "and tie us all together.
Then if one falls off we will all fall off."

And while the Soldier was gone for the clothesline his Majesty continued,
"it is well for me to be careful, for my very existence is in danger."



104

"I have to be as careful as you do," said Jack.

"Not exactly," replied the Scarecrow. "for if anything happened to me, that
would be the end of me. But if anything happened to you, they could use you
for seed."

The Soldier now returned with a long line and tied all three firmly
together, also lashing them to the body of the Saw-Horse; so there seemed
little danger of their tumbling off.

"Now throw open the gates," commanded the Scarecrow, "and we will make a
dash to liberty or to death."

The courtyard in which they were standing was located in the center of the
great palace, which surrounded it on all sides. But in one place a passage
led to an outer gateway, which the Soldier had barred by order of his
sovereign. It was through this gateway his Majesty proposed to escape, and
the Royal Army now led the Saw-Horse along the passage and unbarred the
gate, which swung backward with a loud crash.

"Now," said Tip to the horse, "you must save us all. Run as fast as you can
for the gate of the City, and don't let anything stop you."

"All right!" answered the Saw-Horse, gruffly, and dashed away so suddenly
that Tip had to gasp



105               Full page line-art drawing.

               "WE WILL MAKE A DASH TO LIBERTY OR TO DEATH."



106
for breath and hold firmly to the post he had driven into the creature's
neck.

Several of the girls, who stood outside guarding the palace, were knocked
over by the Saw-Horse's mad rush. Others ran screaming out of the way, and
only one or two jabbed their knitting-needles frantically at the escaping
prisoners. Tip got one small prick in his left arm, which smarted for an
hour afterward; but the needles had no effect upon the Scarecrow or Jack
Pumpkinhead, who never even suspected they were being prodded.

As for the Saw-Horse, he made a wonderful record upsetting a fruit cart,
overturning several meek looking men, and finally bowling over the new
Guardian of the Gate--a fussy little fat woman appointed by General
Jinjur.

Nor did the impetuous charger stop then. Once outside the walls of the
Emerald City he dashed along the road to the West with fast and violent
leaps that shook the breath out of the boy and filled the Scarecrow with
wonder.

Jack had ridden at this mad rate once before, so he devoted every effort to
holding, with both hands, his pumpkin head upon its stick, enduring meantime
the dreadful jolting with the courage of a philosopher.



107               Full page line-art drawing.

               THE WOODEN STEED GAVE ONE FINAL LEAP



108

"Slow him up! Slow him up!" shouted the Scarecrow. "My straw is all shaking
down into my legs."

But Tip had no breath to speak, so the Saw-Horse continued his wild career
unchecked and with unabated speed.

Presently they came to the banks of a wide river, and without a pause the
wooden steed gave one final leap and launched them all in mid-air.

A second later they were rolling, splashing and bobbing about in the water,
the horse struggling frantically to find a rest for its feet and its riders
being first plunged beneath the rapid current and then floating upon the
surface like corks.


               Line-Art Drawing



109               The Journey to the Tin Woodman


Tip was well soaked and dripping water from every angle of his body. But he
managed to lean forward and shout in the ear of the Saw-Horse:

"Keep still, you fool! Keep still!"

The horse at once ceased struggling and floated calmly upon the surface, its
wooden body being as buoyant as a raft.

"What does that word 'fool' mean?" enquired the horse.

"It is a term of reproach," answered Tip, somewhat ashamed of the
expression. "I only use it when I am angry."

"Then it pleases me to be able to call you a fool, in return," said the
horse. "For I did not make



110
the river, nor put it in our way; so only a term of, reproach is fit for one
who becomes angry with me for falling into the water."

"That is quite evident," replied Tip; "so I will acknowledge myself in the
wrong." Then he called out to the Pumpkinhead: "are you all right, Jack?"

There was no reply. So the boy called to the King "are you all right, your
majesty?"

The Scarecrow groaned.

"I'm all wrong, somehow," he said, in a weak voice. "How very wet this water
is!"

Tip was bound so tightly by the cord that he could not turn his head to look
at his companions; so he said to the Saw-Horse:

"Paddle with your legs toward the shore."

The horse obeyed, and although their progress was slow they finally reached
the opposite river bank at a place where it was low enough to enable the
creature to scramble upon dry land.

With some difficulty the boy managed to get his knife out of his pocket and
cut the cords that bound the riders to one another and to the wooden horse.
He heard the Scarecrow fall to the ground with a mushy sound, and then he
himself quickly dismounted and looked at his friend Jack.

The wooden body, with its gorgeous clothing,



111
still sat upright upon the horse's back; but the pumpkin head was gone, and
only the sharpened stick that served for a neck was visible. As for the
Scarecrow, the straw in his body had shaken down with the jolting and packed
itself into his legs and the lower part of his body--which appeared very
plump and round while his upper half seemed like an empty sack. Upon his
head the Scarecrow still wore the heavy crown, which had been sewed on to
prevent his losing it; but the head was now so damp and limp that the weight
of the gold and jewels sagged forward and crushed the painted face into a
mass of wrinkles that made him look exactly like a Japanese pug dog.

Tip would have laughed--had he not been so anxious about his man Jack. But
the Scarecrow, however damaged, was all there, while the pumpkin head that
was so necessary to Jack's existence was missing; so the boy seized a long
pole that fortunately lay near at hand and anxiously turned again toward the
river.

Far out upon the waters he sighted the golden hue of the pumpkin, which
gently bobbed up and down with the motion of the waves. At that moment it
was quite out of Tip's reach, but after a time it floated nearer and still
nearer until the boy



112               Full page line-art drawing.

               TIP RESCUES JACK'S PUMPKIN HEAD



113
was able to reach it with his pole and draw it to the shore. Then he brought
it to the top of the bank, carefully wiped the water from its pumpkin face
with his handkerchief, and ran with it to Jack and replaced the head upon
the man's neck.

"Dear me!" were Jack's first words. "What a dreadful experience! I wonder if
water is liable to spoil pumpkins?"

Tip did not think a reply was necessary, for he knew that the Scarecrow also
stood in need of his help. So he carefully removed the straw from the King's
body and legs, and spread it out in the sun to dry. The wet clothing he hung
over the body of the Saw-Horse.

"If water spoils pumpkins," observed Jack, with a deep sigh, "then my days
are numbered."

"I've never noticed that water spoils pumpkins," returned Tip; "unless the
water happens to be boiling. If your head isn't cracked, my friend, you must
be in fairly good condition."

"Oh, my head isn't cracked in the least," declared Jack, more cheerfully.

"Then don't worry," retorted the boy. "Care once killed a cat."

"Then," said Jack, seriously, "I am very glad indeed that I am not a cat."



114

The sun was fast drying their clothing, and Tip stirred up his Majesty's
straw so that the warm rays might absorb the moisture and make it as crisp
and dry as ever. When this had been accomplished he stuffed the Scarecrow
into symmetrical shape and smoothed out his face so that he wore his usual
gay and charming expression.

"Thank you very much," said the monarch, brightly, as he walked about and
found himself to be well balanced. "There are several distinct advantages in
being a Scarecrow. For if one has friends near at hand to repair damages,
nothing very serious can happen to you."

"I wonder if hot sunshine is liable to crack pumpkins," said Jack, with an
anxious ring in his voice.

"Not at all--not at all!" replied the Scarecrow, gaily." All you need
fear, my boy, is old age. When your golden youth has decayed we shall
quickly part company--but you needn't look forward to it; we'll discover
the fact ourselves, and notify you. But come! Let us resume our journey. I
am anxious to greet my friend the Tin Woodman."

So they remounted the Saw-Horse, Tip holding to the post, the Pumpkinhead
clinging to Tip, and the Scarecrow with both arms around the wooden form of
Jack.



115               Full page line-art drawing.

               TIP STUFFS THE SCARECROW WITH DRY STRAW.



116

"Go slowly, for now there is no danger of pursuit," said Tip to his steed.

"All right!" responded the creature, in a voice rather gruff.

"Aren't you a little hoarse?" asked the Pumpkinhead politely.

The Saw-Horse gave an angry prance and rolled one knotty eye backward toward
Tip.

"See here," he growled, "can't you protect me from insult?"

"To be sure!" answered Tip, soothingly. "I am sure Jack meant no harm. And
it will not do for us to quarrel, you know; we must all remain good
friends."

"I'll have nothing more to do with that Pumpkinhead," declared the Saw-
Horse, viciously. "he loses his head too easily to suit me."

There seemed no fitting reply to this speech, so for a time they rode along
in silence.

After a while the Scarecrow remarked:

"This reminds me of old times. It was upon this grassy knoll that I once
saved Dorothy from the Stinging Bees of the Wicked Witch of the West."

"Do Stinging Bees injure pumpkins?" asked Jack, glancing around fearfully.

"They are all dead, so it doesn't matter," replied



117
the Scarecrow." And here is where Nick Chopper destroyed the Wicked Witch's
Grey Wolves."

"Who was Nick Chopper?" asked Tip.

"That is the name of my friend the Tin Woodman, answered his Majesty. And
here is where the Winged Monkeys captured and bound us, and flew away with
little Dorothy," he continued, after they had traveled a little way farther.

"Do Winged Monkeys ever eat pumpkins?" asked Jack, with a shiver of fear.

"I do not know; but you have little cause to, worry, for the Winged Monkeys
are now the slaves of Glinda the Good, who owns the Golden Cap that commands
their services," said the Scarecrow, reflectively.

Then the stuffed monarch became lost in thought recalling the days of past
adventures. And the Saw-Horse rocked and rolled over the flower-strewn
fields and carried its riders swiftly upon their way.

               * * * * * * * * *


Twilight fell, bye and bye, and then the dark shadows of night. So Tip
stopped the horse and they all proceeded to dismount.

"I'm tired out," said the boy, yawning wearily; "and the grass is soft and
cool. Let us lie down here and sleep until morning."



118

"I can't sleep," said Jack.

"I never do," said the Scarecrow.

"I do not even know what sleep is," said the Saw-Horse.

"Still, we must have consideration for this poor boy, who is made of flesh
and blood and bone, and gets tired," suggested the Scarecrow, in his usual
thoughtful manner. "I remember it was the same way with little Dorothy. We
always had to sit through the night while she slept."

"I'm sorry," said Tip, meekly, "but I can't help it. And I'm dreadfully
hungry, too!"

"Here is a new danger!" remarked Jack, gloomily. "I hope you are not fond of
eating pumpkins."

"Not unless they're stewed and made into pies," answered the boy, laughing.
"So have no fears of me, friend Jack."

"What a coward that Pumpkinhead is!" said the Saw-Horse, scornfully.

"You might be a coward yourself, if you knew you were liable to spoil!"
retorted Jack, angrily.

"There!--there!" interrupted the Scarecrow; "don't let us quarrel. We all
have our weaknesses, dear friends; so we must strive to be considerate of
one another. And since this poor boy is hungry and has nothing whatever to
eat, let us all remain



119
quiet and allow him to sleep; for it is said that in sleep a mortal may
forget even hunger."

"Thank you!" exclaimed Tip, gratefully. "Your Majesty is fully as good as
you are wise--and that is saying a good deal!"

He then stretched himself upon the grass and, using the stuffed form of the
Scarecrow for a pillow, was presently fast asleep.


               Line-Art Drawing



120               Full page line-art drawing.



121               A Nickel-Plated Emperor


Tip awoke soon after dawn, but the Scarecrow had already risen and plucked,
with his clumsy fingers, a double-handful of ripe berries from some bushes
near by. These the boy ate greedily, finding them an ample breakfast, and
afterward the little party resumed its Journey.

After an hour's ride they reached the summit of a hill from whence they
espied the City of the Winkies and noted the tall domes of the Emperor's
palace rising from the clusters of more modest dwellings.

The Scarecrow became greatly animated at this sight, and exclaimed:

"How delighted I shall be to see my old friend the Tin Woodman again! I hope
that he rules his people more successfully than I have ruled mine!"

Is the Tin Woodman the Emperor of the Winkies?" asked the horse.

"Yes, indeed. They invited him to rule over



122
them soon after the Wicked Witch was destroyed; and as Nick Chopper has the
best heart in all the world I am sure he has proved an excellent and able
emperor."

"I thought that 'Emperor' was the title of a person who rules an empire,"
said Tip, "and the Country of the Winkies is only a Kingdom."

"Don't mention that to the Tin Woodman!" exclaimed the Scarecrow, earnestly.
"You would hurt his feelings terribly. He is a proud man, as he has every
reason to be, and it pleases him to be termed Emperor rather than King."

"I'm sure it makes no difference to me," replied the boy.

The Saw-Horse now ambled forward at a pace so fast that its riders had hard
work to stick upon its back; so there was little further conversation until
they drew up beside the palace steps.

An aged Winkie, dressed in a uniform of silver cloth, came forward to assist
them to alight. Said the Scarecrow to his personage:

"Show us at once to your master, the Emperor."

The man looked from one to another of the party in an embarrassed way, and
finally answered:

"I fear I must ask you to wait for a time. The Emperor is not receiving this
morning."



123

"How is that?" enquired the Scarecrow, anxiously." I hope nothing has
happened to him."

"Oh, no; nothing serious," returned the man. "But this is his Majesty's day
for being polished; and just now his august presence is thickly smeared with
putz-pomade."

"Oh, I see!" cried the Scarecrow, greatly reassured. "My friend was ever
inclined to be a dandy, and I suppose he is now more proud than ever of his
personal appearance."

"He is, indeed," said the man, with a polite bow. "Our mighty Emperor has
lately caused himself to be nickel-plated."

"Good Gracious!" the Scarecrow exclaimed at hearing this. "If his wit bears
the same polish, how sparkling it must be! But show us in--I'm sure the
Emperor will receive us, even in his present state"

"The Emperor's state is always magnificent," said the man. "But I will
venture to tell him of your arrival, and will receive his commands
concerning you."

So the party followed the servant into a splendid ante-room, and the Saw-
Horse ambled awkwardly after them, having no knowledge that a horse might be
expected to remain outside.



124

The travelers were at first somewhat awed by their surroundings, and even
the Scarecrow seemed impressed as he examined the rich hangings of silver
cloth caught up into knots and fastened with tiny silver axes. Upon a
handsome center-table stood a large silver oil-can, richly engraved with
scenes from the past adventures of the Tin Woodman, Dorothy, the Cowardly
Lion and the Scarecrow: the lines of the engraving being traced upon the
silver in yellow gold. On the walls hung several portraits, that of the
Scarecrow seeming to be the most prominent and carefully executed, while a
the large painting of the famous Wizard of Oz, in act of presenting the Tin
Woodman with a heart, covered almost one entire end of the room.

While the visitors gazed at these things in silent admiration they suddenly
heard a loud voice in the next room exclaim:

"Well! well! well! What a great surprise!"

And then the door burst open and Nick Chopper rushed into their midst and
caught the Scarecrow in a close and loving embrace that creased him into
many folds and wrinkles.

"My dear old friend! My noble comrade!" cried the Tin Woodman, joyfully.
"how delighted!," I am to meet you once again.



125               Full page line-art drawing.

               CAUGHT THE SCARECROW IN A CLOSE AND LOVING EMBRACE



126

And then he released the Scarecrow and held him at arms' length while he
surveyed the beloved, painted features.

But, alas! the face of the Scarecrow and many portions of his body bore
great blotches of putz-pomade; for the Tin Woodman, in his eagerness to
welcome his friend, had quite forgotten the condition of his toilet and had
rubbed the thick coating of paste from his own body to that of his comrade.

"Dear me!" said the Scarecrow dolefully. "What a mess I'm in!"

"Never mind, my friend," returned the Tin Woodman," I'll send you to my
Imperial Laundry, and you'll come out as good as new."

"Won't I be mangled?" asked the Scarecrow.

"No, indeed!" was the reply. "But tell me, how came your Majesty here? and
who are your companions?"

The Scarecrow, with great politeness, introduced Tip and Jack Pumpkinhead,
and the latter personage seemed to interest the Tin Woodman greatly.

"You are not very substantial, I must admit," said the Emperor. "but you are
certainly unusual, and therefore worthy to become a member of our select
society."

"I thank your Majesty, said Jack, humbly.



127               Line-Art Drawing


"I hope you are enjoying good health?" continued the Woodman.

"At present, yes;" replied the Pumpkinhead, with a sigh; "but I am in
constant terror of the day when I shall spoil."

"Nonsense!" said the Emperor--but in a kindly, sympathetic tone. "Do not,
I beg of you, dampen today's sun with the showers of tomorrow. For before
your head has time to spoil you can have it canned, and in that way it may
be preserved indefinitely."

Tip, during this conversation, was looking at the Woodman with undisguised
amazement, and noticed that the celebrated Emperor of the Winkies was
composed entirely of pieces of tin, neatly soldered



128
and riveted together into the form of a man. He rattled and clanked a
little, as he moved, but in the main he seemed to be most cleverly
constructed, and his appearance was only marred by the thick coating of
polishing-paste that covered him from head to foot.

The boy's intent gaze caused the Tin Woodman to remember that he was not in
the most presentable condition, so he begged his friends to excuse him while
he retired to his private apartment and allowed his servants to polish him.
This was accomplished in a short time, and when the emperor returned his
nickel-plated body shone so magnificently that the Scarecrow heartily
congratulated him on his improved appearance.

"That nickel-plate was, I confess, a happy thought," said Nick; "and it was
the more necessary because I had become somewhat scratched during my
adventurous experiences. You will observe this engraved star upon my left
breast. It not only indicates where my excellent heart lies, but covers very
neatly the patch made by the Wonderful Wizard when he placed that valued
organ in my breast with his own skillful hands."

"Is your heart, then, a hand-organ?" asked the Pumpkinhead, curiously.



129

"By no means," responded the emperor, with dignity. "It is, I am convinced,
a strictly orthodox heart, although somewhat larger and warmer than most
people possess."

Then he turned to the Scarecrow and asked:

"Are your subjects happy and contented, my dear friend?"

"I cannot, say" was the reply. "for the girls of Oz have risen in revolt and
driven me out of the emerald City."

"Great Goodness!" cried the Tin Woodman, "What a calamity! They surely do
not complain of your wise and gracious rule?"

"No; but they say it is a poor rule that don't work both ways," answered the
Scarecrow; "and these females are also of the opinion that men have ruled
the land long enough. So they have captured my city, robbed the treasury of
all its jewels, and are running things to suit themselves."

"Dear me! What an extraordinary idea!" cried the Emperor, who was both
shocked and surprised.

"And I heard some of them say," said Tip, "that they intend to march here
and capture the castle and city of the Tin Woodman."

"Ah! we must not give them time to do that," said the Emperor, quickly; "we
will go at once and



130               Full page line-art drawing.

               RENOVATING HIS MAJESTY, THE SCARECROW.



131
recapture the Emerald City and place the Scarecrow again upon his throne."

"I was sure you would help me," remarked the Scarecrow in a pleased voice.
"How large an army can you assemble?"

"We do not need an army," replied the Woodman. "We four, with the aid of my
gleaming axe, are enough to strike terror into the hearts of the rebels."

"We five," corrected the Pumpkinhead.

"Five?" repeated the Tin Woodman.

"Yes; the Saw-Horse is brave and fearless," answered Jack, forgetting his
recent quarrel with the quadruped.

The Tin Woodman looked around him in a puzzled way, for the Saw-Horse had
until now remained quietly standing in a corner, where the Emperor had not
noticed him. Tip immediately called the odd-looking creature to them, and it
approached so awkwardly that it nearly upset the beautiful center-table and
the engraved oil-can.

"I begin to think," remarked the Tin Woodman as he looked earnestly at the
Saw-Horse, "that wonders will never cease! How came this creature alive?"

"I did it with a magic powder," modestly asserted the boy. "and the Saw-
Horse has been very useful to us."



132

"He enabled us to escape the rebels," added the Scarecrow.

"Then we must surely accept him as a comrade," declared the emperor. "A live
Saw-Horse is a distinct novelty, and should prove an interesting study. Does
he know anything?"

"Well, I cannot claim any great experience in life," the Saw-Horse answered
for himself. "but I seem to learn very quickly, and often it occurs to me
that I know more than any of those around me."

"Perhaps you do," said the emperor; "for experience does not always mean
wisdom. But time is precious Just now, so let us quickly make preparations
to start upon our Journey.

The emperor called his Lord High Chancellor and instructed him how to run
the kingdom during his absence. Meanwhile the Scarecrow was taken apart and
the painted sack that served him for a head was carefully laundered and
restuffed with the brains originally given him by the great Wizard. His
clothes were also cleaned and pressed by the Imperial tailors, and his crown
polished and again sewed upon his head, for the Tin Woodman insisted he
should not renounce this badge of royalty. The Scarecrow now presented a
very respectable appearance, and although in no way addicted to vanity he



133
was quite pleased with himself and strutted a trifle as he walked. While
this was being done Tip mended the wooden limbs of Jack Pumpkinhead and made
them stronger than before, and the Saw-Horse was also inspected to see if he
was in good working order.

Then bright and early the next morning they set out upon the return Journey
to the emerald City, the Tin Woodman bearing upon his shoulder a gleaming
axe and leading the way, while the Pumpkinhead rode upon the Saw-Horse and
Tip and the Scarecrow walked upon either side to make sure that he didn't
fall off or become damaged.


               Line-Art Drawing



134               Full page line-art drawing.



135               Mr. H. M. Woggle-Bug, T. E.


Now, General Jinjur--who, you will remember, commanded the Army of Revolt--was
rendered very uneasy by the escape of the Scarecrow from the Emerald
City. She feared, and with good reason, that if his Majesty and the Tin
Woodman Joined forces, it would mean danger to her and her entire army; for
the people of Oz had not yet forgotten the deeds of these famous heroes, who
had passed successfully through so many startling adventures.

So Jinjur sent post-haste for old Mombi, the witch, and promised her large
rewards if she would come to the assistance of the rebel army.

Mombi was furious at the trick Tip had played upon her as well as at his
escape and the theft of the precious Powder of Life; so she needed no urging



136
to induce her to travel to the Emerald City to assist Jinjur in defeating
the Scarecrow and the Tin Woodman, who had made Tip one of their friends.

Mombi had no sooner arrived at the royal palace than she discovered, by
means of her secret magic, that the adventurers were starting upon their
Journey to the Emerald City; so she retired to a small room high up in a
tower and locked herself in while she practised such arts as she could
command to prevent the return of the Scarecrow and his companions.

That was why the Tin Woodman presently stopped and said:

"Something very curious has happened. I ought to know by heart and every
step of this Journey, yet I fear we have already lost our way."

"That is quite impossible!" protested the Scarecrow. "Why do you think, my
dear friend, that we have gone astray?"

"Why, here before us is a great field of sunflowers--and I never saw this
field before in all my life."

At these words they all looked around, only to find that they were indeed
surrounded by a field of tall stalks, every stalk bearing at its top a
gigantic sunflower. And not only were these flowers almost



137
blinding in their vivid hues of red and gold, but each one whirled around
upon its stalk like a miniature wind-mill, completely dazzling the vision of
the beholders and so mystifying them that they knew not which way to turn.

"It's witchcraft!" exclaimed Tip.

While they paused, hesitating and wondering, the Tin Woodman uttered a cry
of impatience and advanced with swinging axe to cut down the stalks before
him. But now the sunflowers suddenly stopped their rapid whirling, and the
travelers plainly saw a girl's face appear in the center of each flower.
These lovely faces looked upon the astonished band with mocking smiles, and
then burst into a chorus of merry laughter at the dismay their appearance
caused.

"Stop! stop!" cried Tip, seizing the Woodman's arm; "they're alive! they're
girls!"

At that moment the flowers began whirling again, and the faces faded away
and were lost in the rapid revolutions.

The Tin Woodman dropped his axe and sat down upon the ground.

"It would be heartless to chop down those pretty creatures," said he,
despondently. "and yet I do not know how else we can proceed upon our way"

"They looked to me strangely like the faces of



138
the Army of Revolt," mused the Scarecrow. "But I cannot conceive how the
girls could have followed us here so quickly."

"I believe it's magic," said Tip, positively, "and that someone is playing a
trick upon us. I've known old Mombi do things like that before. Probably
it's nothing more than an illusion, and there are no sunflowers here at
all."

"Then let us shut our eyes and walk forward," suggested the Woodman.

"Excuse me," replied the Scarecrow. "My eyes are not painted to shut.
Because you happen to have tin eyelids, you must not imagine we are all
built in the same way."

"And the eyes of the Saw-Horse are knot eyes," said Jack, leaning forward to
examine them.

"Nevertheless, you must ride quickly forward," commanded Tip, "and we will
follow after you and so try to escape. My eyes are already so dazzled that I
can scarcely see."

So the Pumpkinhead rode boldly forward, and Tip grasped the stub tail of the
Saw-Horse and followed with closed eyes. The Scarecrow and the Tin Woodman
brought up the rear, and before they had gone many yards a Joyful shout from
Jack announced that the way was clear before them.



139

Then all paused to look backward, but not a trace of the field of sunflowers
remained.

More cheerfully, now they proceeded upon their Journey; but old Mombi had so
changed the appearance of the landscape that they would surely have been
lost had not the Scarecrow wisely concluded to take their direction from the
sun. For no witch-craft could change the course of the sun, and it was
therefore a safe guide.

However, other difficulties lay before them. The Saw-Horse stepped into a
rabbit hole and fell to the ground. The Pumpkinhead was pitched high into
the air, and his history would probably have ended at that exact moment had
not the Tin Woodman skillfully caught the pumpkin as it descended and saved
it from injury.

Tip soon had it fitted to the neck again and replaced Jack upon his feet.
But the Saw-Horse did not escape so easily. For when his leg was pulled from
the rabbit hole it was found to be broken short off, and must be replaced or
repaired before he could go a step farther.

"This is quite serious," said the Tin Woodman." If there were trees near by
I might soon manufacture another leg for this animal; but I cannot see even
a shrub for miles around."



140               Full page line-art drawing.

               THE TIN WOODMAN SKILLFULLY CAUGHT THE PUMPKIN



141

"And there are neither fences nor houses in this part of the land of Oz,"
added the Scarecrow, disconsolately.

"Then what shall we do?" enquired the boy.

"I suppose I must start my brains working," replied his Majesty the
Scarecrow; "for experience has, taught me that I can do anything if I but
take time to think it out."

"Let us all think," said Tip; "and perhaps we shall find a way to repair the
Saw-Horse."

So they sat in a row upon the grass and began to think, while the Saw-Horse
occupied itself by gazing curiously upon its broken limb.

"Does it hurt?" asked the Tin Woodman, in a soft, sympathetic voice.

"Not in the least," returned the Saw-Horse; "but my pride is injured to find
that my anatomy is so brittle."

For a time the little group remained in silent thought. Presently the Tin
Woodman raised his head and looked over the fields.

"What sort of creature is that which approaches us?" he asked, wonderingly.

The others followed his gaze, and discovered coming toward them the most
extraordinary object they had ever beheld. It advanced quickly and



142
noiselessly over the soft grass and in a few minutes stood before the
adventurers and regarded them with an astonishment equal to their own.

The Scarecrow was calm under all circumstances.

"Good morning!" he said, politely.

The stranger removed his hat with a flourish, bowed very low, and then
responded:


               Line-Art Drawing



"Good morning, one and all. I hope you are, as an aggregation, enjoying
excellent health. Permit me to present my card."

With this courteous speech it extended a card toward the Scarecrow, who
accepted it, turned it over and over, and handed it with a shake of his head
to Tip.

The boy read aloud:


"MR. H. M. WOGGLE-BUG, T. E."



143

"Dear me!" ejaculated the Pumpkinhead, staring somewhat intently.

"How very peculiar!" said the Tin Woodman.

Tip's eyes were round and wondering, and the Saw-Horse uttered a sigh and
turned away its head.

"Are you really a Woggle-Bug?" enquired the Scarecrow.

"Most certainly, my dear sir!" answered the stranger, briskly. "Is not my
name upon the card?"

"It is," said the Scarecrow. "But may I ask what 'H. M.' stands for?"

"'H. M.' means Highly Magnified," returned the Woggle-Bug, proudly.

"Oh, I see." The Scarecrow viewed the stranger critically. "And are you, in
truth, highly magnified?"

"Sir," said the Woggle-Bug, "I take you for a gentleman of judgment and
discernment. Does it not occur to you that I am several thousand times
greater than any Woggle-Bug you ever saw before? Therefore it is plainly
evident that I am Highly Magnified, and there is no good reason why you
should doubt the fact."

"Pardon me," returned the Scarecrow. "My brains are slightly mixed since I
was last laundered. Would it be improper for me to ask, also, what the
'T.E.' at the end of your name stands for?"



144

"Those letters express my degree," answered the Woggle-Bug, with a
condescending smile. "To be more explicit, the initials mean that I am
Thoroughly Educated."

"Oh!" said the Scarecrow, much relieved.

Tip had not yet taken his eyes off this wonderful personage. What he saw was
a great, round, buglike body supported upon two slender legs which ended in
delicate feet--the toes curling upward. The body of the Woggle-Bug was
rather flat, and judging from what could be seen of it was of a glistening
dark brown color upon the back, while the front was striped with alternate
bands of light brown and white, blending together at the edges. Its arms
were fully as slender as its legs, and upon a rather long neck was perched
its head--not unlike the head of a man, except that its nose ended in a
curling antenna, or "feeler," and its ears from the upper points bore
antennae that decorated the sides of its head like two miniature, curling
pig tails. It must be admitted that the round, black eyes were rather
bulging in appearance; but the expression upon the Woggle-Bug's face was by
no means unpleasant.

For dress the insect wore a dark-blue swallowtail coat with a yellow silk
lining and a flower in the button-hole; a vest of white duck that stretched



145
tightly across the wide body; knickerbockers of fawn-colored plush, fastened
at the knees with gilt buckles; and, perched upon its small head, was
jauntily set a tall silk hat.

Standing upright before our amazed friends the Woggle-Bug appeared to be
fully as tall as the Tin Woodman; and surely no bug in all the Land of Oz
had ever before attained so enormous a size.

"I confess," said the Scarecrow, "that your abrupt appearance has caused me
surprise, and no doubt has startled my companions. I hope, however, that
this circumstance will not distress you. We shall probably get used to you
in time."

"Do not apologize, I beg of you!" returned the Woggle-Bug, earnestly. "It
affords me great pleasure to surprise people; for surely I cannot be classed
with ordinary insects and am entitled to both curiosity and admiration from
those I meet."

"You are, indeed," agreed his Majesty.

"If you will permit me to seat myself in your august company," continued the
stranger, "I will gladly relate my history, so that you will be better able
to comprehend my unusual--may I say remarkable?--appearance."

"You may say what you please," answered the Tin Woodman, briefly.



146

So the Woggle-Bug sat down upon the grass, facing the little group of
wanderers, and told them the following story:

               Line-Art Drawing



147               A Highly Magnified History


"It is but honest that I should acknowledge at the beginning of my recital
that I was born an ordinary Woggle-Bug," began the creature, in a frank and
friendly tone. "Knowing no better, I used my arms as well as my legs for
walking, and crawled under the edges of stones or hid among the roots of
grasses with no thought beyond finding a few insects smaller than myself to
feed upon.

"The chill nights rendered me stiff and motionless, for I wore no clothing,
but each morning the warm rays of the sun gave me new life and restored me
to activity. A horrible existence is this, but you must remember it is the
regular ordained existence of Woggle-Bugs, as well as of many other tiny
creatures that inhabit the earth.

"But Destiny had singled me out, humble though I was, for a grander fate!
One day I crawled near



148
to a country school house, and my curiosity being excited by the monotonous
hum of the students within, I made bold to enter and creep along a crack
between two boards until I reached the far end, where, in front of a hearth
of glowing embers, sat the master at his desk.

"No one noticed so small a creature as a Woggle-Bug, and when I found that
the hearth was even warmer and more comfortable than the sunshine, I
resolved to establish my future home beside it. So I found a charming nest
between two bricks and hid myself therein for many, many months.

"Professor Nowitall is, doubtless, the most famous scholar in the land of
Oz, and after a few days I began to listen to the lectures and discourses he
gave his pupils. Not one of them was more attentive than the humble,
unnoticed Woggle-Bug, and I acquired in this way a fund of knowledge that I
will myself confess is simply marvelous. That is why I place 'T.E.'
Thoroughly Educated upon my cards; for my greatest pride lies in the fact
that the world cannot produce another Woggle-Bug with a tenth part of my own
culture and erudition."

"I do not blame you," said the Scarecrow. "Education is a thing to be proud
of. I'm educated myself. The mess of brains given me by the Great



149
Wizard is considered by my friends to be unexcelled."

"Nevertheless," interrupted the Tin Woodman, "a good heart is, I believe,
much more desirable than education or brains."

"To me," said the Saw-Horse, "a good leg is more desirable than either."

"Could seeds be considered in the light of brains?" enquired the
Pumpkinhead, abruptly.

"Keep quiet!" commanded Tip, sternly.

"Very well, dear father," answered the obedient Jack.

The Woggle-Bug listened patiently--even respectfully--to these remarks,
and then resumed his story.

"I must have lived fully three years in that secluded school-house hearth,"
said he, "drinking thirstily of the ever-flowing fount of limpid knowledge
before me."

"Quite poetical," commented the Scarecrow, nodding his head approvingly.

"But one, day" continued the Bug, "a marvelous circumstance occurred that
altered my very existence and brought me to my present pinnacle of
greatness. The

               Line-Art Drawing



150
Professor discovered me in the act of crawling across the hearth, and before
I could escape he had caught me between his thumb and forefinger.

"'My dear children,' said he, 'I have captured a Woggle-Bug--a very rare
and interesting specimen. Do any of you know what a Woggle-Bug is?'

"'No!' yelled the scholars, in chorus.

"'Then,' said the Professor, 'I will get out my famous magnifying-glass and
throw the insect upon a screen in a highly-magnified condition, that you may
all study carefully its peculiar construction and become acquainted with its
habits and manner of life.'

"He then brought from a cupboard a most curious instrument, and before I
could realize what had happened I found myself thrown upon a screen in a
highly-magnified state--even as you now behold me.

"The students stood up on their stools and craned their heads forward to get
a better view of me, and two little girls jumped upon the sill of an open
window where they could see more plainly.

"'Behold!' cried the Professor, in a loud voice, 'this highly-magnified
Woggle-Bug; one of the most curious insects in existence!'

"Being Thoroughly Educated, and knowing what is required of a cultured
gentleman, at this juncture I stood upright and, placing my hand upon my



151               Full page line-art drawing.

               "THEE STUDENTS STOOD UP ON THEIR STOOLS."



152
bosom, made a very polite bow. My action, being unexpected, must have
startled them, for one of the little girls perched upon the window-sill gave
a scream and fell backward out the window, drawing her companion with her as
she disappeared.

"The Professor uttered a cry of horror and rushed away through the door to
see if the poor children were injured by the fall. The scholars followed
after him in a wild mob, and I was left alone in the school-room, still in a
Highly-Magnified state and free to do as I pleased.

"It immediately occurred to me that this was a good opportunity to escape. I
was proud of my great size, and realized that now I could safely travel
anywhere in the world, while my superior culture would make me a fit
associate for the most learned person I might chance to meet.

"So, while the Professor picked the little girls--who were more frightened
than hurt--off the ground, and the pupils clustered around him closely
grouped, I calmly walked out of the school-house, turned a corner, and
escaped unnoticed to a grove of trees that stood near"

"Wonderful!" exclaimed the Pumpkinhead, admiringly.

"It was, indeed," agreed the Woggle-Bug. "I



153
have never ceased to congratulate myself for escaping while I was Highly
Magnified; for even my excess-


               Line-Art Drawing


ive knowledge would have proved of little use to me had I remained a tiny,
insignificant insect."

"I didn't know before," said Tip, looking at the



154
Woggle-Bug with a puzzled expression, "that insects wore clothes."

"Nor do they, in their natural state," returned the stranger. "But in the
course of my wanderings I had the good fortune to save the ninth life of a
tailor--tailors having, like cats, nine lives, as you probably know. The
fellow was exceedingly grateful, for had he lost that ninth life it would
have been the end of him; so he begged permission to furnish me with the
stylish costume I now wear. It fits very nicely, does it not?" and the
Woggle-Bug stood up and turned himself around slowly, that all might examine
his person.

"He must have been a good tailor," said the Scarecrow, somewhat enviously.

"He was a good-hearted tailor, at any rate," observed Nick Chopper.

"But where were you going, when you met us?" Tip asked the Woggle-Bug.

"Nowhere in particular," was the reply, "although it is my intention soon to
visit the Emerald City and arrange to give a course of lectures to select
audiences on the 'Advantages of Magnification.'"

"We are bound for the Emerald City now," said the Tin Woodman; "so, if it
pleases you to do so, you are welcome to travel in our company."



155

The Woggle-Bug bowed with profound grace.

"It will give me great pleasure," said he "to accept your kind invitation;
for nowhere in the Land of Oz could I hope to meet with so congenial a
company."

"That is true," acknowledged the Pumpkinhead. "We are quite as congenial as
flies and honey."

"But--pardon me if I seem inquisitive--are you not all rather--ahem!
rather unusual?" asked the Woggle-Bug, looking from one to another with
unconcealed interest.

"Not more so than yourself," answered the Scarecrow. "Everything in life is
unusual until you get accustomed to it."

"What rare philosophy!" exclaimed the Woggle-Bug, admiringly.

"Yes; my brains are working well today," admitted the Scarecrow, an accent
of pride in his voice.

"Then, if you are sufficiently rested and refreshed, let us bend our steps
toward the Emerald City," suggested the magnified one.

"We can't," said Tip. "The Saw-Horse has broken a leg, so he can't bend his
steps. And there is no wood around to make him a new limb from. And we can't
leave the horse behind because the Pumpkinhead is so stiff in his Joints
that he has to ride."



156

"How very unfortunate!" cried the Woggle-Bug. Then he looked the party over
carefully and said:

"If the Pumpkinhead is to ride, why not use one of his legs to make a leg
for the horse that carries him? I judge that both are made of wood."

"Now, that is what I call real cleverness," said the Scarecrow, approvingly.
"I wonder my brains  did not think of that long ago! Get to work, my dear
Nick, and fit the Pumpkinhead's leg to the Saw-Horse."

Jack was not especially pleased with this idea; but he submitted to having
his left leg amputated by the Tin Woodman and whittled down to fit the left
leg of the Saw-Horse. Nor was the Saw-Horse especially pleased with the
operation, either; for he growled a good deal about being "butchered," as he
called it, and afterward declared that the new leg was a disgrace to a
respectable Saw-Horse.

"I beg you to be more careful in your speech," said the Pumpkinhead,
sharply. "Remember, if you please, that it is my leg you are abusing."

"I cannot forget it," retorted the Saw-Horse, "for it is quite as flimsy as
the rest of your person."

"Flimsy! me flimsy!" cried Jack, in a rage. "How dare you call me flimsy?"

"Because you are built as absurdly as a jumping-



157
jack," sneered the horse, rolling his knotty eyes in a vicious manner. "Even
your head won't stay straight, and you never can tell whether you are
looking backwards or forwards!"

"Friends, I entreat you not to quarrel!" pleaded the Tin Woodman,
anxiously." As a matter of fact, we are none of us above criticism; so let
us bear with each others' faults."

"An excellent suggestion," said the Woggle-Bug, approvingly. "You must have
an excellent heart, my metallic friend."

"I have," returned Nick, well pleased. "My heart is quite the best part of
me. But now let us start upon our Journey.

They perched the one-legged Pumpkinhead upon the Saw-Horse, and tied him to
his seat with cords, so that he could not possibly fall off.

And then, following the lead of the Scarecrow, they all advanced in the
direction of the Emerald City.


               Line-Art Drawing



158               Full page line-art drawing.



159               Old Mombi indulges in Witchcraft


They soon discovered that the Saw-Horse limped, for his new leg was a trifle
too long. So they were obliged to halt while the Tin Woodman chopped it down
with his axe, after which the wooden steed paced along more comfortably. But
the Saw-Horse was not entirely satisfied, even yet.

"It was a shame that I broke my other leg!" it growled.

"On the contrary," airily remarked the Woggle-Bug, who was walking
alongside, "you should consider the accident most fortunate. For a horse is
never of much use until he has been broken."

"I beg your pardon," said Tip, rather provoked, for he felt a warm interest
in both the Saw-Horse and his man Jack; "but permit me to say that your joke
is a poor one, and as old as it is poor."



160

"Still, it is a Joke," declared the Woggle-Bug; firmly, "and a Joke derived
from a play upon words is considered among educated people to be eminently
proper."

"What does that mean?" enquired the Pumpkinhead, stupidly.

"It means, my dear friend," explained the Woggle-Bug, "that our language
contains many words having a double meaning; and that to pronounce a joke
that allows both meanings of a certain word, proves the joker a person of
culture and refinement, who has, moreover, a thorough command of the
language."

"I don't believe that," said Tip, plainly; "anybody can make a pun."

"Not so," rejoined the Woggle-Bug, stiffly. "It requires education of a high
order. Are you educated, young sir?"

"Not especially," admitted Tip.

"Then you cannot judge the matter. I myself am Thoroughly Educated, and I
say that puns display genius. For instance, were I to ride upon this Saw-
Horse, he would not only be an animal he would become an equipage. For he
would then be a horse-and-buggy."

At this the Scarecrow gave a gasp and the Tin



161
Woodman stopped short and looked reproachfully at the Woggle-Bug. At the
same time the Saw-Horse loudly snorted his derision; and even the
Pumpkinhead put up his hand to hide the smile which, because it was carved
upon his face, he could not change to a frown.

But the Woggle-Bug strutted along as if he had made some brilliant remark,
and the Scarecrow was obliged to say:

"I have heard, my dear friend, that a person can become over-educated; and
although I have a high respect for brains, no matter how they may be
arranged or classified, I begin to suspect that yours are slightly tangled.
In any event, I must beg you to restrain your superior education while in
our society."

"We are not very particular," added the Tin Woodman; "and we are exceedingly
kind hearted. But if your superior culture gets leaky again--" He did not
complete the sentence, but he twirled his gleaming axe so carelessly that
the Woggle-Bug looked frightened, and shrank away to a safe distance.

The others marched on in silence, and the Highly Magnified one, after a
period of deep thought, said in an humble voice:

"I will endeavor to restrain myself."



162

"That is all we can expect," returned the Scarecrow pleasantly; and good
nature being thus happily restored to the party, they proceeded upon their
way.

When they again stopped to allow Tip to rest--the boy being the only one
that seemed to tire--the Tin Woodman noticed many small, round holes in
the grassy meadow.

"This must be a village of the Field Mice," he said to the Scarecrow." I
wonder if my old friend, the Queen of the Mice, is in this neighborhood."

"If she is, she may be of great service to us," answered the Scarecrow, who
was impressed by a sudden thought. "See if you can call her, my dear Nick."

So the Tin Woodman blew a shrill note upon a silver whistle that hung around
his neck, and presently a tiny grey mouse popped from a near-by hole and
advanced fearlessly toward them. For the Tin Woodman had once saved her
life, and the Queen of the Field Mice knew he was to be trusted."

"Good day, your Majesty, said Nick, politely addressing the mouse; "I trust
you are enjoying good health?"

"Thank you, I am quite well," answered the Queen, demurely, as she sat up
and displayed the tiny golden crown upon her head. "Can I do anything to
assist my old friends?"



163

"You can, indeed," replied the Scarecrow, eagerly. "Let me, I intreat you,
take a dozen of your subjects with me to the Emerald City."

"Will they be injured in any way?" asked the Queen, doubtfully.

"I think not," replied the Scarecrow. "I will carry them hidden in the straw
which stuffs my body, and when I give them the signal by unbuttoning my
jacket, they have only to rush out and scamper home again as fast as they
can. By doing this they will assist me to regain my throne, which the Army
of Revolt has taken from me."

"In that case," said the Queen, "I will not refuse your request. Whenever
you are ready, I will call twelve of my most intelligent subjects."

"I am ready now" returned the Scarecrow. Then he lay flat upon the ground
and unbuttoned his jacket, displaying the mass of straw with which he was
stuffed.

The Queen uttered a little piping call, and in an instant a dozen pretty
field mice had emerged from their holes and stood before their ruler,
awaiting her orders.

What the Queen said to them none of our travelers could understand, for it
was in the mouse language; but the field mice obeyed without hesitation,



164
running one after the other to the Scarecrow and hiding themselves in the
straw of his breast.

When all of the twelve mice had thus concealed themselves, the Scarecrow
buttoned his Jacket securely and then arose and thanked the Queen for her
kindness.

"One thing more you might do to serve us," suggested the Tin Woodman; "and
that is to run ahead and show us the way to the Emerald City. For some enemy
is evidently trying to prevent us from reaching it."

"I will do that gladly," returned the Queen. "Are you ready?"

The Tin Woodman looked at Tip.

"I'm rested," said the boy. "Let us start."

Then they resumed their journey, the little grey  Queen of the Field Mice
running swiftly ahead and then pausing until the travelers drew near, when
away she would dart again.

Without this unerring guide the Scarecrow and his comrades might never have
gained the Emerald City; for many were the obstacles thrown in their way by
the arts of old Mombi. Yet not one of the obstacles really existed--all
were cleverly contrived deceptions. For when they came to the banks of a
rushing river that threatened to bar their way the



165
little Queen kept steadily on, passing through the seeming flood in safety;
and our travelers followed her without encountering a single drop of water.

Again, a high wall of granite towered high above their heads and opposed
their advance. But the grey Field Mouse walked straight through it, and the
others did the same, the wall melting into mist as they passed it.

Afterward, when they had stopped for a moment to allow Tip to rest, they saw
forty roads branching off from their feet in forty different directions; and
soon these forty roads began whirling around like a mighty wheel, first in
one direction and then in the other, completely bewildering their vision.

But the Queen called for them to follow her and darted off in a straight
line; and when they had gone a few paces the whirling pathways vanished and
were seen no more.

Mombi's last trick was the most fearful of all. She sent a sheet of
crackling flame rushing over the meadow to consume them; and for the first
time the Scarecrow became afraid and turned to fly.

"If that fire reaches me I will be gone in no time!" said he, trembling
until his straw rattled. "It's the most dangerous thing I ever encountered."

"I'm off, too!" cried the Saw-Horse, turning and



166
prancing with agitation; "for my wood is so dry it would burn like
kindlings."

"Is fire dangerous to pumpkins?" asked Jack, fearfully.

"You'll be baked like a tart--and so will I!"


               Line-Art Drawing


answered the Woggle-Bug, getting down on all fours so he could run the
faster.

But the Tin Woodman, having no fear of fire, averted the stampede by a few
sensible words.

"Look at the Field Mouse!" he shouted. "The fire does not burn her in the
least. In fact, it is no fire at all, but only a deception."



167

Indeed, to watch the little Queen march calmly through the advancing flames
restored courage to every member of the party, and they followed her without
being even scorched.

"This is surely a most extraordinary adventure," said the Woggle-Bug, who
was greatly amazed; "for it upsets all the Natural Laws that I heard
Professor Nowitall teach in the school-house."

"Of course it does," said the Scarecrow, wisely. "All magic is unnatural,
and for that reason is to be feared and avoided. But I see before us the
gates of the Emerald City, so I imagine we have now overcome all the magical
obstacles that seemed to oppose us."

Indeed, the walls of the City were plainly visible, and the Queen of the
Field Mice, who had guided them so faithfully, came near to bid them good-
bye.

"We are very grateful to your Majesty for your kind assistance," said the
Tin Woodman, bowing before the pretty creature.

"I am always pleased to be of service to my friends," answered the Queen,
and in a flash she had darted away upon her journey home.



168               Full page line-art drawing.



169               The Prisoners of the Queen


Approaching the gateway of the Emerald City the travelers found it guarded
by two girls of the Army of Revolt, who opposed their entrance by drawing
the knitting-needles from their hair and threatening to prod the first that
came near.

But the Tin Woodman was not afraid."

At the worst they can but scratch my beautiful nickel-plate," he said. "But
there will be no 'worst,' for I think I can manage to frighten these absurd
soldiers very easily. Follow me closely, all of you!"

Then, swinging his axe in a great circle to right and left before him, he
advanced upon the gate, and the others followed him without hesitation.

The girls, who had expected no resistance whatever, were terrified by the
sweep of the glittering axe and fled screaming into the city; so that our



170
travelers passed the gates in safety and marched down the green marble
pavement of the wide street toward the royal palace.

"At this rate we will soon have your Majesty upon the throne again," said
the Tin Woodman, laughing at his easy conquest of the guards.

"Thank you, friend Nick," returned the Scarecrow, gratefully. "Nothing can
resist your kind heart and your sharp axe."

As they passed the rows of houses they saw through the open doors that men
were sweeping and dusting and washing dishes, while the women sat around in
groups, gossiping and laughing.

"What has happened?" the Scarecrow asked a sad-looking man with a bushy
beard, who wore an apron and was wheeling a baby-carriage along the
sidewalk.

"Why, we've had a revolution, your Majesty as you ought to know very well,"
replied the man; "and since you went away the women have been running things
to suit themselves. I'm glad you have decided to come back and restore
order, for doing housework and minding the children is wearing out the
strength of every man in the Emerald City."

"Hm!" said the Scarecrow, thoughtfully. "If it



171
is such hard work as you say, how did the women manage it so easily?"

"I really do not know" replied the man, with a deep sigh. "Perhaps the women
are made of castiron."

No movement was made, as they passed along the street, to oppose their
progress. Several of the women stopped their gossip long enough to cast
curious looks upon our friends, but immediately they would turn away with a
laugh or a sneer and resume their chatter. And when they met with several
girls belonging to the Army of Revolt, those soldiers, instead of being
alarmed or appearing surprised, merely stepped out of the way and allowed
them to advance without protest.

This action rendered the Scarecrow uneasy."

I'm afraid we are walking into a trap," said he.

"Nonsense!" returned Nick Chopper, confidently; "the silly creatures are
conquered already!"

But the Scarecrow shook his head in a way that expressed doubt, and Tip
said:

"It's too easy, altogether. Look out for trouble ahead."

"I will," returned his Majesty. Unopposed they reached the royal palace and
marched up the marble steps, which had once been



172               Full page line-art drawing.

               "IT'S TOO EASY, ALTOGETHER."



173
thickly crusted with emeralds but were now filled with tiny holes where the
jewels had been ruthlessly torn from their settings by the Army of Revolt.
And so far not a rebel barred their way.

Through the arched hallways and into the magnificent throne room marched the
Tin Woodman and his followers, and here, when the green silken curtains fell
behind them, they saw a curious sight.

Seated within the glittering throne was General Jinjur, with the Scarecrow's
second-best crown upon her head, and the royal sceptre in her right hand. A
box of caramels, from which she was eating, rested in her lap, and the girl
seemed entirely at ease in her royal surroundings.

The Scarecrow stepped forward and confronted her, while the Tin Woodman
leaned upon his axe and the others formed a half-circle back of his
Majesty's person.

"How dare you sit in my throne?" demanded the Scarecrow, sternly eyeing the
intruder. "Don't you know you are guilty of treason, and that there is a law
against treason?"

"The throne belongs to whoever is able to take it," answered Jinjur, as she
slowly ate another caramel. "I have taken it, as you see; so just now I am
the Queen, and all who oppose me are guilty of



174
treason, and must be punished by the law you have just mentioned."

This view of the case puzzled the Scarecrow.

"How is it, friend Nick?" he asked, turning to the Tin Woodman.

"Why, when it comes to Law, I have nothing to, say" answered that personage.
"for laws were never meant to be understood, and it is foolish to make the
attempt."

"Then what shall we do?" asked the Scarecrow, in dismay.

"Why don't you marry the Queen? And then you can both rule," suggested the
Woggle-Bug.

Jinjur glared at the insect fiercely. "Why don't you send her back to her
mother, where she belongs?" asked Jack Pumpkinhead.

Jinjur frowned.

"Why don't you shut her up in a closet until she behaves herself, and
promises to be good?" enquired Tip. Jinjur's lip curled scornfully.

"Or give her a good shaking!" added the Saw-Horse.

"No," said the Tin Woodman, "we must treat the poor girl with gentleness.
Let us give her all the Jewels she can carry, and send her away happy and
contented."



175

At this Queen Jinjur laughed aloud, and the next minute clapped her pretty
hands together thrice, as if for a signal.

"You are very absurd creatures," said she; "but I am tired of your nonsense
and have no time to bother with you longer."

While the monarch and his friends listened in amazement to this impudent
speech, a startling thing happened. The Tin Woodman's axe was snatched from
his grasp by some person behind him, and he found himself disarmed and
helpless. At the same instant a shout of laughter rang in the ears of the
devoted band, and turning to see whence this came they found themselves
surrounded by the Army of Revolt, the girls bearing in either hand their
glistening knitting-needles. The entire throne room seemed to be filled with
the rebels, and the Scarecrow and his comrades realized that they were
prisoners.

"You see how foolish it is to oppose a woman's wit," said Jinjur, gaily;
"and this event only proves that I am more fit to rule the Emerald City than
a Scarecrow. I bear you no ill will, I assure you; but lest you should prove
troublesome to me in the future I shall order you all to be destroyed. That
is, all except the boy, who belongs to old Mombi and must be restored to her
keeping. The rest of



176
you are not human, and therefore it will not be wicked to demolish you. The
Saw-Horse and the Pumpkinhead's body I will have chopped up for kindling-
wood; and the pumpkin shall be made into tarts. The Scarecrow will do nicely
to start a bonfire, and the tin man can be cut into small pieces and fed to
the goats. As for this immense Woggle-Bug--"

"Highly Magnified, if you please!" interrupted the insect.

"I think I will ask the cook to make green-turtle soup of you," continued
the Queen, reflectively.

The Woggle-Bug shuddered.

"Or, if that won't do, we might use you for a Hungarian goulash, stewed and
highly spiced," she added, cruelly.

This programme of extermination was so terrible that the prisoners looked
upon one another in a panic of fear. The Scarecrow alone did not give way to
despair. He stood quietly before the Queen and his brow was wrinkled in deep
thought as he strove to find some means to escape.

While thus engaged he felt the straw within his breast move gently. At once
his expression changed from sadness to joy, and raising his hand he quickly
unbuttoned the front of his jacket.

This action did not pass unnoticed by the crowd



177
of girls clustering about him, but none of them suspected what he was doing
until a tiny grey mouse leaped from his bosom to the floor and scampered

               Line-Art Drawing

away between the feet of the Army of Revolt. Another mouse quickly followed;
then another and another, in rapid succession. And suddenly such a



178
scream of terror went up from the Army that it might easily have filled the
stoutest heart with consternation. The flight that ensued turned to a
stampede, and the stampede to a panic.

For while the startled mice rushed wildly about the room the Scarecrow had
only time to note a whirl of skirts and a twinkling of feet as the girls
disappeared from the palace--pushing and crowding one another in their mad
efforts to escape.

The Queen, at the first alarm, stood up on the cushions of the throne and
began to dance frantically upon her tiptoes. Then a mouse ran up the
cushions, and with a terrified leap poor Jinjur shot clear over the head of
the Scarecrow and escaped through an archway--never pausing in her wild
career until she had reached the city gates.

So, in less time than I can explain, the throne room was deserted by all
save the Scarecrow and his friends, and the Woggle-Bug heaved a deep sigh of
relief as he exclaimed:

"Thank goodness, we are saved!"

"For a time, yes;" answered the Tin Woodman. "But the enemy will soon
return, I fear."

"Let us bar all the entrances to the palace!" said the Scarecrow. "Then we
shall have time to think what is best to be done."



179

So all except Jack Pumpkinhead, who was still tied fast to the Saw-Horse,
ran to the various entrances of the royal palace and closed the heavy doors,
bolting and locking them securely. Then, knowing that the Army of Revolt
could not batter down the barriers in several days, the adventurers gathered
once more in the throne room for a council of war.

               Line-Art Drawing



180               Full page line-art drawing.



181               The Scarecrow Takes Time to Think


"It seems to me," began the Scarecrow, when all were again assembled in the
throne room, "that the girl Jinjur is quite right in claiming to be Queen.
And if she is right, then I am wrong, and we have no business to be
occupying her palace."

"But you were the King until she came," said the Woggle-Bug, strutting up
and down with his hands in his pockets; "so it appears to me that she is the
interloper instead of you."

"Especially as we have just conquered her and put her to flight," added the
Pumpkinhead, as he raised his hands to turn his face toward the Scarecrow.

"Have we really conquered her?" asked the Scarecrow, quietly. "Look out of
the window, and tell me what you see."



182

Tip ran to the window and looked out.

"The palace is surrounded by a double row of girl soldiers," he announced.

"I thought so," returned the Scarecrow. "We are as truly their prisoners as
we were before the mice frightened them from the palace."

"My friend is right," said Nick Chopper, who had been polishing his breast
with a bit of chamois-leather. "Jinjur is still the Queen, and we are her
prisoners."

"But I hope she cannot get at us," exclaimed the Pumpkinhead, with a shiver
of fear. "She threatened to make tarts of me, you know."

"Don't worry," said the Tin Woodman. "It cannot matter greatly. If you stay
shut up here you will spoil in time, anyway. A good tart is far more
admirable than a decayed intellect."

"Very true," agreed the Scarecrow.

"Oh, dear!" moaned Jack; "what an unhappy lot is mine! Why, dear father, did
you not make me out of tin--or even out of straw--so that I would keep
indefinitely."

"Shucks!" returned Tip, indignantly. "You ought to be glad that I made you
at all." Then he added, reflectively, "everything has to come to an end,
some time."



183

"But I beg to remind you," broke in the Woggle-Bug, who had a distressed
look in his bulging, round eyes, "that this terrible Queen Jinjur suggested
making a goulash of me--Me! the only Highly Magnified and Thoroughly
Educated Woggle-Bug in the wide, wide world!"

"I think it was a brilliant idea," remarked the Scarecrow, approvingly.

"Don't you imagine he would make a better soup?" asked the Tin Woodman,
turning toward his friend.

"Well, perhaps," acknowledged the Scarecrow.

The Woggle-Bug groaned.

"I can see, in my mind's eye," said he, mournfully, "the goats eating small
pieces of my dear comrade, the Tin Woodman, while my soup is being cooked on
a bonfire built of the Saw-Horse and Jack Pumpkinhead's body, and Queen
Jinjur watches me boil while she feeds the flames with my friend the
Scarecrow!"

This morbid picture cast a gloom over the entire party, making them restless
and anxious.

"It can't happen for some time," said the Tin Woodman, trying to speak
cheerfully; "for we shall be able to keep Jinjur out of the palace until she
manages to break down the doors."



184

"And in the meantime I am liable to starve to death, and so is the Woggle-
Bug," announced Tip.

"As for me," said the Woggle-Bug, "I think that I could live for some time
on Jack Pumpkinhead. Not that I prefer pumpkins for food; but I believe they
are somewhat nutritious, and Jack's head is large and plump."

"How heartless!" exclaimed the Tin Woodman, greatly shocked. "Are we
cannibals, let me ask? Or are we faithful friends?"

"I see very clearly that we cannot stay shut up in this palace," said the
Scarecrow, with decision. "So let us end this mournful talk and try to
discover a means to escape."

At this suggestion they all gathered eagerly around the throne, wherein was
seated the Scarecrow, and as Tip sat down upon a stool there fell from his
pocket a pepper-box, which rolled upon the floor.

"What is this?" asked Nick Chopper, picking up the box.

"Be careful!" cried the boy. "That's my Powder of Life. Don't spill it, for
it is nearly gone."

"And what is the Powder of Life?" enquired the Scarecrow, as Tip replaced
the box carefully in his pocket.

"It's some magical stuff old Mombi got from a



185
crooked sorcerer," explained the boy. "She brought Jack to life with it, and
afterward I used it to bring the Saw-Horse to life. I guess it will make
anything live that is sprinkled with it; but there's only about one dose
left."

"Then it is very precious," said the Tin Woodman.

"Indeed it is," agreed the Scarecrow. "It may prove our best means of escape
from our difficulties. I believe I will think for a few minutes; so I will
thank you, friend Tip, to get out your knife and rip this heavy crown from
my forehead."

Tip soon cut the stitches that had fastened the crown to the Scarecrow's
head, and the former monarch of the Emerald City removed it with a sigh of
relief and hung it on a peg beside the throne.

"That is my last memento of royalty" said he; "and I'm glad to get rid of
it. The former King of this City,

               Line-Art Drawing



186
who was named Pastoria, lost the crown to the Wonderful Wizard, who passed
it on to me. Now the girl Jinjur claims it, and I sincerely hope it will not
give her a headache."

"A kindly thought, which I greatly admire," said the Tin Woodman, nodding
approvingly.

"And now I will indulge in a quiet think," continued the Scarecrow, lying
back in the throne.

The others remained as silent and still as possible, so as not to disturb
him; for all had great confidence in the extraordinary brains of the
Scarecrow.

And, after what seemed a very long time indeed to the anxious watchers, the
thinker sat up, looked upon his friends with his most whimsical expression,
and said:

"My brains work beautifully today. I'm quite proud of them. Now, listen! If
we attempt to escape through the doors of the palace we shall surely be
captured. And, as we can't escape through the ground, there is only one
other thing to be done. We must escape through the air!"

He paused to note the effect of these words; but all his hearers seemed
puzzled and unconvinced.

"The Wonderful Wizard escaped in a balloon," he continued. "We don't know
how to make a balloon, of course; but any sort of thing that can



187
fly through the air can carry us easily. So I suggest that my friend the Tin
Woodman, who is a skillful mechanic, shall build some sort of a machine,
with good strong wings, to carry us; and our friend Tip can then bring the
Thing to life with his magical powder."

"Bravo!" cried Nick Chopper.

"What splendid brains!" murmured Jack.

"Really quite clever!" said the Educated Woggle-Bug.

"I believe it can be done," declared Tip; "that is, if the Tin Woodman is
equal to making the Thing."

"I'll do my best," said Nick, cheerily; "and, as a matter of fact, I do not
often fail in what I attempt. But the Thing will have to be built on the
roof of the palace, so it can rise comfortably into the air."

               Line-Art Drawing



188

"To be sure," said the Scarecrow.

"Then let us search through the palace," continued the Tin Woodman, "and
carry all the material we can find to the roof, where I will begin my work."

"First, however," said the Pumpkinhead, "I beg you will release me from this
horse, and make me another leg to walk with. For in my present condition I
am of no use to myself or to anyone else."

So the Tin Woodman knocked a mahogany center-table to pieces with his axe
and fitted one of the legs, which was beautifully carved, on to the body of
Jack Pumpkinhead, who was very proud of the acquisition.

"It seems strange," said he, as he watched the Tin Woodman work, "that my
left leg should be the most elegant and substantial part of me."

"That proves you are unusual," returned the Scarecrow. "and I am convinced
that the only people worthy of consideration in this world are the unusual
ones. For the common folks are like the leaves of a tree, and live and die
unnoticed."

"Spoken like a philosopher!" cried the Woggle-Bug, as he assisted the Tin
Woodman to set Jack upon his feet.

"How do you feel now?" asked Tip, watching



189
the Pumpkinhead stump around to try his new leg."

As good as new" answered Jack, Joyfully, "and quite ready to assist you all
to escape."

"Then let us get to work," said the Scarecrow, in a business-like tone.

So, glad to be doing anything that might lead to the end of their captivity,
the friends separated to wander over the palace in search of fitting
material to use in the construction of their aerial machine.

               Line-Art Drawing



190               Full page line-art drawing.



191               The Astonishing Flight of the Gump


When the adventurers reassembled upon the roof it was found that a
remarkably queer assortment of articles had been selected by the various
members of the party. No one seemed to have a very clear idea of what was
required, but all had brought something.

The Woggle-Bug had taken from its position over the mantle-piece in the
great hallway the head of a Gump, which was adorned with wide-spreading
antlers; and this, with great care and greater difficulty, the insect had
carried up the stairs to the roof. This Gump resembled an Elk's head, only
the nose turned upward in a saucy manner and there were whiskers



192
upon its chin, like those of a billy-goat. Why the Woggle-Bug selected this
article he could not have explained, except that it had aroused his
curiosity.

Tip, with the aid of the Saw-Horse, had brought a large, upholstered sofa to
the roof. It was an oldfashioned piece of furniture, with high back and
ends, and it was so heavy that even by resting the greatest weight upon the
back of the Saw-Horse, the boy found himself out of breath when at last the
clumsy sofa was dumped upon the roof.

The Pumpkinhead had brought a broom, which was the first thing he saw. The
Scarecrow arrived with a coil of clothes-lines and ropes which he had taken
from the courtyard, and in his trip up the stairs he had become so entangled
in the loose ends of the ropes that both he and his burden tumbled in a heap
upon the roof and might have rolled off if Tip had not rescued him.

The Tin Woodman appeared last. He also had been to the courtyard, where he
had cut four great, spreading leaves from a huge palm-tree that was the
pride of all the inhabitants of the Emerald City.

"My dear Nick!" exclaimed the Scarecrow, seeing what his friend had done;
"you have been guilty of the greatest crime any person can commit in the
Emerald City. If I remember rightly, the



193               Full page line-art drawing.

               ALL BROUGHT SOMETHING TO THE ROOF.



194
penalty for chopping leaves from the royal palm-tree is to be killed seven
times and afterward imprisoned for life."

"It cannot be helped now" answered the Tin Woodman, throwing down the big
leaves upon the roof. "But it may be one more reason why it is necessary for
us to escape. And now let us see what you have found for me to work with."

Many were the doubtful looks cast upon the heap of miscellaneous material
that now cluttered the roof, and finally the Scarecrow shook his head and
remarked:

"Well, if friend Nick can manufacture, from this mess of rubbish, a Thing
that will fly through the air and carry us to safety, then I will
acknowledge him to be a better mechanic than I suspected."

But the Tin Woodman seemed at first by no means sure of his powers, and only
after polishing his forehead vigorously with the chamois-leather did he
resolve to undertake the task.

"The first thing required for the machine," said he, "is a body big enough
to carry the entire party. This sofa is the biggest thing we have, and might
be used for a body. But, should the machine ever tip sideways, we would all
slide off and fall to the ground."



195

"Why not use two sofas?" asked Tip. "There's another one just like this down
stairs."

"That is a very sensible suggestion," exclaimed the Tin Woodman. "You must
fetch the other sofa at once."

So Tip and the Saw-Horse managed, with much labor, to get the second sofa to
the roof; and when the two were placed together, edge to edge, the backs and
ends formed a protecting rampart all around the seats.

"Excellent!" cried the Scarecrow. "We can ride within this snug nest quite
at our ease."

The two sofas were now bound firmly together with ropes and clothes-lines,
and then Nick Chopper fastened the Gump's head to one end.

"That will show which is the front end of the Thing," said he, greatly
pleased with the idea." And, really, if you examine it critically, the Gump
looks very well as a figure-head. These great palm-leaves, for which I have
endangered my life seven times, must serve us as wings."

"Are they strong enough?" asked the boy.

"They are as strong as anything we can get," answered the Woodman; "and
although they are not in proportion to the Thing's body, we are not in a
position to be very particular."



196

So he fastened the palm-leaves to the sofas, two on each side.

Said the Woggle-Bug, with considerable admiration:

"The Thing is now complete, and only needs to be brought to life."

"Stop a moment!" exclaimed Jack." Are you not going to use my broom?"

"What for?" asked the Scarecrow.

"Why, it can be fastened to the back end for a tail," answered the
Pumpkinhead. "Surely you would not call the Thing complete without a tail."

"Hm!" said the Tin Woodman, "I do not see the use of a tail. We are not
trying to copy a beast, or a fish, or a bird. All we ask of the Thing is to
carry us through the air.

"Perhaps, after the Thing is brought to life, it can use a tail to steer
with," suggested the Scarecrow. "For if it flies through the air it will not
be unlike a bird, and I've noticed that all birds have tails, which they use
for a rudder while flying."

"Very well," answered Nick, "the broom shall be used for a tail," and he
fastened it firmly to the back end of the sofa body.

Tip took the pepper-box from his pocket.

"The Thing looks very big," said he, anxiously;



197
"and I am not sure there is enough powder left to bring all of it to life.
But I'll make it go as far as possible."

"Put most on the wings," said Nick Chopper; "for they must be made as strong
as possible."

"And don't forget the head!" exclaimed the Woggle-Bug.

"Or the tail!" added Jack Pumpkinhead.

"Do be quiet," said Tip, nervously; "you must give me a chance to work the
magic charm in the proper manner."

Very carefully he began sprinkling the Thing with the precious powder. Each
of the four wings was first lightly covered with a layer. then the sofas
were sprinkled, and the broom given a slight coating.

"The head! The head! Don't, I beg of you, forget the head!" cried the
Woggle-Bug, excitedly.

"There's only a little of the powder left," announced Tip, looking within
the box." And it seems to me it is more important to bring the legs of the
sofas to life than the head."

"Not so," decided the Scarecrow. "Every thing must have a head to direct it;
and since this creature is to fly, and not walk, it is really unimportant
whether its legs are alive or not."

So Tip abided by this decision and sprinkled the Gump's head with the
remainder of the powder.



198

"Now" said he, "keep silence while I work the, charm!"

Having heard old Mombi pronounce the magic words, and having also succeeded
in bringing the Saw-Horse to life, Tip did not hesitate an instant in
speaking the three cabalistic words, each accompanied by the peculiar
gesture of the hands.

It was a grave and impressive ceremony.

As he finished the incantation the Thing shuddered throughout its huge bulk,
the Gump gave the screeching cry that is familiar to those animals, and then
the four wings began flopping furiously.

Tip managed to grasp a chimney, else he would have been blown off the roof
by the terrible breeze raised by the wings. The Scarecrow, being light in
weight, was caught up bodily and borne through the air until Tip luckily
seized him by one leg and held him fast. The Woggle-Bug lay flat upon the
roof and so escaped harm,

               Line-Art Drawing



199
and the Tin Woodman, whose weight of tin anchored him firmly, threw both
arms around Jack Pumpkinhead and managed to save him. The Saw-Horse toppled
over upon his back and lay with his legs waving helplessly above him.

And now, while all were struggling to recover themselves, the Thing rose
slowly from the roof and mounted into the air.

"Here! Come back!" cried Tip, in a frightened voice, as he clung to the
chimney with one hand and the Scarecrow with the other. "Come back at once,
I command you!"

It was now that the wisdom of the Scarecrow, in bringing the head of the
Thing to life instead of the legs, was proved beyond a doubt. For the Gump,
already high in the air, turned its head at Tip's command and gradually
circled around until it could view the roof of the palace.

"Come back!" shouted the boy, again.

And the Gump obeyed, slowly and gracefully waving its four wings in the air
until the Thing had settled once more upon the roof and become still.



200               Full page line-art drawing.



201               In the Jackdaw's Nest


"This," said the Gump, in a squeaky voice not at all proportioned to the
size of its great body, "is the most novel experience I ever heard of. The
last thing I remember distinctly is walking through the forest and hearing a
loud noise. Something probably killed me then, and it certainly ought to
have been the end of me. Yet here I am, alive again, with four monstrous
wings and a body which I venture to say would make any respectable animal or
fowl weep with shame to own. What does it all mean? Am I a Gump, or am I a
juggernaut?" The creature, as it spoke, wiggled its chin whiskers in a very
comical manner.

"You're just a Thing," answered Tip, "with a Gump's head on it. And we have
made you and brought you to life so that you may carry us through the air
wherever we wish to go."



202

"Very good!" said the Thing. "As I am not a Gump, I cannot have a Gump's
pride or independent spirit. So I may as well become your servant as
anything else. My only satisfaction is that I do not seem to have a very
strong constitution, and am not likely to live long in a state of slavery."

"Don't say that, I beg of you!" cried the Tin Woodman, whose excellent heart
was strongly affected by this sad speech." Are you not feeling well today?"

"Oh, as for that," returned the Gump, "it is my first day of existence; so I
cannot Judge whether I am feeling well or ill." And it waved its broom tail
to and fro in a pensive manner.

"Come, come!" said the Scarecrow, kindly. "do try, to be more cheerful and
take life as you find it. We shall be kind masters, and will strive to
render your existence as pleasant as possible. Are you willing to carry us
through the air wherever we wish to go?"

"Certainly," answered the Gump. "I greatly prefer to navigate the air. For
should I travel on the earth and meet with one of my own species, my
embarrassment would be something awful!"

"I can appreciate that," said the Tin Woodman, sympathetically.

"And yet," continued the Thing, "when I carefully



203
look you over, my masters, none of you seems to be constructed much more
artistically than I am."

"Appearances are deceitful," said the Woggle-Bug, earnestly. "I am both
Highly Magnified and Thoroughly Educated."

"Indeed!" murmured the Gump, indifferently.

"And my brains are considered remarkably rare specimens," added the
Scarecrow, proudly.

"How strange!" remarked the Gump.

"Although I am of tin," said the Woodman, "I own a heart altogether the
warmest and most admirable in the whole world."

"I'm delighted to hear it," replied the Gump, with a slight cough.

"My smile," said Jack Pumpkinhead, "is worthy your best attention. It is
always the same."

"Semper idem," explained the Woggle-Bug, pompously; and the Gump turned to
stare at him.

"And I," declared the Saw-Horse, filling in an awkward pause, "am only
remarkable because I can't help it."

"I am proud, indeed, to meet with such exceptional masters," said the Gump,
in a careless tone. "If I could but secure so complete an introduction to
myself, I would be more than satisfied."

"That will come in time," remarked the Scare-



204
crow. "To 'Know Thyself' is considered quite an accomplishment, which it has
taken us, who are your elders, months to perfect. But now," he added,
turning to the others, "let us get aboard and start upon our journey."

"Where shall we go?" asked Tip, as he clambered to a seat on the sofas and
assisted the Pumpkinhead to follow him.

"In the South Country rules a very delightful Queen called Glinda the Good,
who I am sure will gladly receive us," said the Scarecrow, getting into the
Thing clumsily. "Let us go to her and ask her advice."

"That is cleverly thought of," declared Nick Chopper, giving the Woggle-Bug
a boost and then toppling the Saw-Horse into the rear end of the cushioned
seats." I know Glinda the Good, and believe she will prove a friend indeed."

"Are we all ready?" asked the boy.

"Yes," announced the Tin Woodman, seating himself beside the Scarecrow.

"Then," said Tip, addressing the Gump, "be kind enough to fly with us to the
Southward; and do not go higher than to escape the houses and trees, for it
makes me dizzy to be up so far."

"All right," answered the Gump, briefly.



205

It flopped its four huge wings and rose slowly into the air; and then, while
our little band of adventurers clung to the backs and sides of the sofas for
support, the Gump turned toward the South and soared swiftly and
majestically away.

"The scenic effect, from this altitude, is marvelous," commented the
educated Woggle-Bug, as they rode along.

"Never mind the scenery," said the Scarecrow. "Hold on tight, or you may get
a tumble. The Thing seems to rock badly.'

"It will be dark soon," said Tip, observing that the sun was low on the
horizon. "Perhaps we should have waited until morning. I wonder if the Gump
can fly in the night."

"I've been wondering that myself," returned the Gump quietly. "You see, this
is a new experience to me. I used to have legs that carried me swiftly over
the ground. But now my legs feel as if they were asleep."

"They are," said Tip. "We didn't bring 'em to life."

"You're expected to fly," explained the Scarecrow. "not to walk."

"We can walk ourselves," said the Woggle-Bug."

I begin to understand what is required of me," remarked the Gump; "so I will
do my best to



206
please you," and he flew on for a time in silence.

Presently Jack Pumpkinhead became uneasy.

"I wonder if riding through the air is liable to spoil pumpkins," he said.

"Not unless you carelessly drop your head over the side," answered the
Woggle-Bug. "In that event your head would no longer be a pumpkin, for it
would become a squash."

"Have I not asked you to restrain these unfeeling jokes?" demanded Tip,
looking at the Woggle-Bug with a severe expression.

"You have; and I've restrained a good many of them," replied the insect.
"But there are opportunities for so many excellent puns in our language
that, to an educated person like myself, the temptation to express them is
almost irresistible."

"People with more or less education discovered those puns centuries ago,"
said Tip.

"Are you sure?" asked the Woggle-Bug, with a startled look.

"Of course I am," answered the boy. "An educated Woggle-Bug may be a new
thing; but a Woggle-Bug education is as old as the hills, judging from the
display you make of it."

The insect seemed much impressed by this remark, and for a time maintained a
meek silence.



207

The Scarecrow, in shifting his seat, saw upon the cushions the pepper-box
which Tip had cast aside, and began to examine it.

"Throw it overboard," said the boy; "it's quite empty now, and there's no
use keeping it."

"Is it really empty?" asked the Scarecrow, looking curiously into the box.

"Of course it is," answered Tip. "I shook out every grain of the powder.

"Then the box has two bottoms," announced the Scarecrow, "for the bottom on
the inside is fully an inch away from the bottom on the outside."

"Let me see," said the Tin Woodman, taking the box from his friend. "Yes,"
he declared, after looking it over, "the thing certainly has a false bottom.
Now, I wonder what that is for?"

"Can't you get it apart, and find out?" enquired Tip, now quite interested
in the mystery.

"Why, yes; the lower bottom unscrews," said the Tin Woodman. "My fingers are
rather stiff; please see if you can open it."

He handed the pepper-box to Tip, who had no difficulty in unscrewing the
bottom. And in the cavity below were three silver pills, with a carefully
folded paper lying underneath them.

This paper the boy proceeded to unfold, taking



208
care not to spill the pills, and found several lines clearly written in red
ink.

"Read it aloud," said the Scarecrow. so Tip read, as follows:

          "DR. NIKIDIK'S CELEBRATED WISHING PILLS.

"Directions for Use: Swallow one pill; count seventeen by twos; then make a
Wish.
-The Wish will immediately be granted.
               CAUTION: Keep in a Dry and Dark Place."


"Why, this is a very valuable discovery!" cried the Scarecrow.

"It is, indeed," replied Tip, gravely. "These pills may be of great use to
us. I wonder if old Mombi knew they were in the bottom of the pepper-box. I
remember hearing her say that she got the Powder of Life from this same
Nikidik."

"He must be a powerful Sorcerer!" exclaimed the Tin Woodman; "and since the
powder proved a success we ought to have confidence in the pills."

"But how," asked the Scarecrow, "can anyone count seventeen by twos?
Seventeen is an odd number."

"That is true," replied Tip, greatly disappointed. "No one can possibly
count seventeen by twos."

"Then the pills are of no use to us," wailed the Pumpkinhead; "and this fact
overwhelms me with



209
grief. For I had intended wishing that my head would never spoil."

"Nonsense!" said the Scarecrow, sharply. "If we could use the pills at all
we would make far better wishes than that."

"I do not see how anything could be better," protested poor Jack. "If you
were liable to spoil at any time you could understand my anxiety."

"For my part," said the Tin Woodman, "I sympathize with you in every
respect. But since we cannot count seventeen by twos, sympathy is all you
are liable to get."

By this time it had become quite dark, and the voyagers found above them a
cloudy sky, through which the rays of the moon could not penetrate.

The Gump flew steadily on, and for some reason the huge sofa-body rocked
more and more dizzily every hour.

The Woggle-Bug declared he was sea-sick; and Tip was also pale and somewhat
distressed. But the others clung to the backs of the sofas and did not seem
to mind the motion as long as they were not tipped out.

Darker and darker grew the night, and on and on sped the Gump through the
black heavens. The



210
travelers could not even see one another, and an oppressive silence settled
down upon them.

After a long time Tip, who had been thinking deeply, spoke.

"How are we to know when we come to the pallace of Glinda the Good?" he
asked.

"It's a long way to Glinda's palace," answered the Woodman; "I've traveled
it."

"But how are we to know how fast the Gump is flying?" persisted the boy. "We
cannot see a single thing down on the earth, and before morning we may be
far beyond the place we want to reach."

"That is all true enough," the Scarecrow replied, a little uneasily. "But I
do not see how we can stop just now; for we might alight in a river, or on,
the top of a steeple; and that would be a great disaster."

So they permitted the Gump to fly on, with regular flops of its great wings,
and waited patiently for morning.

Then Tip's fears were proven to be well founded; for with the first streaks
of gray dawn they looked over the sides of the sofas and discovered rolling
plains dotted with queer villages, where the houses, instead of being dome-
shaped--as they all are in the Land of Oz--had slanting roofs that rose
to a peak



211
in the center. Odd looking animals were also moving about upon the open
plains, and the country was unfamiliar to both the Tin Woodman and the
Scarecrow, who had formerly visited Glinda the Good's domain and knew it
well.

"We are lost!" said the Scarecrow, dolefully. "The Gump must have carried us
entirely out of the Land of Oz and over the sandy deserts and into the
terrible outside world that Dorothy told us about."

"We must get back," exclaimed the Tin Woodman, earnestly. "we must get back
as soon as possible!"

"Turn around!" cried Tip to the Gump. "turn as quickly as you can!"

"If I do I shall upset," answered the Gump. "I'm not at all used to flying,
and the best plan would be for me to alight in some place, and then I can
turn around and take a fresh start."

Just then, however, there seemed to be no stopping-place that would answer
their purpose. They flew over a village so big that the Woggle-Bug declared
it was a city. and then they came to a range of high mountains with many
deep gorges and steep cliffs showing plainly.

"Now is our chance to stop," said the boy, finding



212
they were very close to the mountain tops. Then he turned to the Gump and
commanded: "Stop at the first level place you see!"

"Very well," answered the Gump, and settled down upon a table of rock that
stood between two cliffs.

But not being experienced in such matters, the Gump did not judge his speed
correctly; and instead of coming to a stop upon the flat rock he missed it
by half the width of his body, breaking off both his right wings against the
sharp edge of the rock and then tumbling over and over down the cliff.

Our friends held on to the sofas as long as they could, but when the Gump
caught on a proJecting rock the Thing stopped suddenly--bottom side up--and
all were immediately dumped out.

By good fortune they fell only a few feet; for underneath them was a monster
nest, built by a colony of Jackdaws in a hollow ledge of rock; so none of
them--not even the Pumpkinhead--was injured by the fall. For Jack found
his precious head resting on the soft breast of the Scarecrow, which made an
excellent cushion; and Tip fell on a mass of leaves and papers, which saved
him from injury. The Woggle-Bug had bumped his round head against



213               Full page line-art drawing.

               ALL WERE IMMEDIATELY DUMPED OUT.



214
the Saw-Horse, but without causing him more than a moment's inconvenience.

The Tin Woodman was at first much alarmed; but finding he had escaped
without even a scratch upon his beautiful nickle-plate he at once regained
his accustomed cheerfulness and turned to address his comrades.

"Our Journey had ended rather suddenly," said he; "and we cannot justly
blame our friend the Gump for our accident, because he did the best he could
under the circumstances. But how we are ever to escape from this nest I must
leave to someone with better brains than I possess."

Here he gazed at the Scarecrow; who crawled to the edge of the nest and
looked over. Below them was a sheer precipice several hundred feet in depth.
Above them was a smooth cliff unbroken save by the point of rock where the
wrecked body of the Gump still hung suspended from the end of one of the
sofas. There really seemed to be no means of escape, and as they realized
their helpless plight the little band of adventurers gave way to their
bewilderment.

"This is a worse prison than the palace," sadly remarked the Woggle-Bug.

"I wish we had stayed there," moaned Jack.



215
"I'm afraid the mountain air isn't good for pumpkins."

"It won't be when the Jackdaws come back," growled the Saw-Horse, which lay
waving its legs in a vain endeavor to get upon its feet again. "Jackdaws are
especially fond of pumpkins."

"Do you think the birds will come here?" asked Jack, much distressed.

"Of course they will," said Tip; "for this is their nest. And there must be
hundreds of them," he continued, "for see what a lot of things they have
brought here!"

Indeed, the nest was half filled with a most curious collection of small
articles for which the birds could have no use, but which the thieving
Jackdaws had stolen during many years from the homes of men. And as the nest
was safely hidden where no human being could reach it, this lost property
would never be recovered.

The Woggle-Bug, searching among the rubbish--for the Jackdaws stole
useless things as well as valuable ones--turned up with his foot a
beautiful diamond necklace. This was so greatly admired by the Tin Woodman
that the Woggle-Bug presented it to him with a graceful speech, after which
the Woodman hung it around his neck with much pride,



216               Full page line-art drawing.

               TURNED UP A BEAUTIFUL DIAMOND NECKLACE.



217
rejoicing exceedingly when the big diamonds glittered in the sun's rays.

But now they heard a great jabbering and flopping of wings, and as the sound
grew nearer to them Tip exclaimed:

"The Jackdaws are coming! And if they find us here they will surely kill us
in their anger."

"I was afraid of this!" moaned the Pumpkinhead. "My time has come!"

"And mine, also!" said the Woggle-Bug; "for Jackdaws are the greatest
enemies of my race."

The others were not at all afraid; but the Scarecrow at once decided to save
those of the party who were liable to be injured by the angry birds. So he
commanded Tip to take off Jack's head and lie down with it in the bottom of
the nest, and when this was done he ordered the Woggle-Bug to lie beside
Tip. Nick Chopper, who knew from past experience Just what to do, then took
the Scarecrow to pieces (all except his head) and scattered the straw over
Tip and the Woggle-Bug, completely covering their bodies.

Hardly had this been accomplished when the flock of Jackdaws reached them.
Perceiving the intruders in their nest the birds flew down upon them with
screams of rage.



218               Full page line-art drawing.



219               Dr. Nikidik's Famous Wishing Pills


The Tin Woodman was usually a peaceful man, but when occasion required he
could fight as fiercely as a Roman gladiator. So, when the Jackdaws nearly
knocked him down in their rush of wings, and their sharp beaks and claws
threatened to damage his brilliant plating, the Woodman picked up his axe
and made it whirl swiftly around his head.

But although many were beaten off in this way, the birds were so numerous
and so brave that they continued the attack as furiously as before. Some of
them pecked at the eyes of the Gump, which hung over the nest in a helpless
condition; but the Gump's eyes were of glass and could not be injured.
Others of the Jackdaws rushed at the Saw-Horse; but that animal, being still
upon his back, kicked out so viciously with his wooden legs that he beat off
as many assailants as did the Woodman's axe.



220

Finding themselves thus opposed, the birds fell upon the Scarecrow's straw,
which lay at the center of the nest, covering Tip and the Woggle-Bug and
Jack's pumpkin head, and began tearing it away and flying off with it, only
to let it drop, straw by straw into the great gulf beneath.

The Scarecrow's head, noting with dismay this wanton destruction of his
interior, cried to the Tin Woodman to save him; and that good friend
responded with renewed energy. His axe fairly flashed among the Jackdaws,
and fortunately the Gump began wildly waving the two wings remaining on the
left side of its body. The flutter of these great wings filled the Jackdaws
with terror, and when the Gump by its exertions freed itself from the peg of
rock on which it hung, and sank flopping into the nest, the alarm of the
birds knew no bounds and they fled screaming over the mountains.

When the last foe had disappeared, Tip crawled from under the sofas and
assisted the Woggle-Bug to follow him.

"We are saved!" shouted the boy, delightedly.

"We are, indeed!" responded the Educated Insect, fairly hugging the stiff
head of the Gump in his joy. "and we owe it all to the flopping of the
Thing, and the good axe of the Woodman!"



221

"If I am saved, get me out of here!" called Jack; whose head was still
beneath the sofas; and Tip managed to roll the pumpkin out and place it upon
its neck again. He also set the Saw-Horse upright, and said to it:

"We owe you many thanks for the gallant fight you made."

"I really think we have escaped very nicely," remarked the Tin Woodman, in a
tone of pride.

"Not so!" exclaimed a hollow voice.

At this they all turned in surprise to look at the Scarecrow's head, which
lay at the back of the nest.

"I am completely ruined!" declared the Scarecrow, as he noted their
astonishment. "For where is the straw that stuffs my body?"

The awful question startled them all. They gazed around the nest with
horror, for not a vestige of straw remained. The



222
Jackdaws had stolen it to the last wisp and flung it all into the chasm that
yawned for hundreds of feet beneath the nest.

"My poor, poor friend!" said the Tin Woodman, taking up the Scarecrow's head
and caressing it tenderly; "whoever could imagine you would come to this
untimely end?"

"I did it to save my friends," returned the head; "and I am glad that I
perished in so noble and unselfish a manner."

"But why are you all so despondent?" inquired the Woggle-Bug. "The
Scarecrow's clothing is still safe."

"Yes," answered the Tin Woodman; "but our friend's clothes are useless
without stuffing."

"Why not stuff him with money?" asked Tip.

"Money!" they all cried, in an amazed chorus.

"To be sure," said the boy. "In the bottom of the nest are thousands of
dollar bills--and two-dollar bills--and five-dollar bills--and tens,
and twenties, and fifties. There are enough of them to stuff a dozen
Scarecrows. Why not use the money?"

The Tin Woodman began to turn over the rubbish with the handle of his axe;
and, sure enough, what they had first thought only worthless papers were
found to be all bills of various denominations,



223
which the mischievous Jackdaws had for years been engaged in stealing from
the villages and cities they visited.

There was an immense fortune lying in that inaccessible nest; and Tip's
suggestion was, with the Scarecrow's consent, quickly acted upon.

They selected all the newest and cleanest bills and assorted them into
various piles. The Scarecrow's left leg and boot were stuffed with five-
dollar bills; his right leg was stuffed with ten-dollar bills, and his body
so closely filled with fifties, one-hundreds and one-thousands that he could
scarcely button his jacket with comfort.

"You are now" said the Woggle-Bug, impressively, when the task had been
completed, "the most valuable member of our party; and as you

               Line-Art Drawing



224
are among faithful friends there is little danger of your being spent."

"Thank you," returned the Scarecrow, gratefully. "I feel like a new man; and
although at first glance I might be mistaken for a Safety Deposit Vault, I
beg you to remember that my Brains are still composed of the same old
material. And these are the possessions that have always made me a person to
be depended upon in an emergency."

"Well, the emergency is here," observed Tip; "and unless your brains help us
out of it we shall be compelled to pass the remainder of our lives in this
nest."

"How about these wishing pills?" enquired the Scarecrow, taking the box from
his jacket pocket. "Can't we use them to escape?"

"Not unless we can count seventeen by twos," answered the Tin Woodman. "But
our friend the Woggle-Bug claims to be highly educated, so he ought easily
to figure out how that can be done."

"It isn't a question of education," returned the Insect; "it's merely a
question of mathematics. I've seen the professor work lots of sums on the
blackboard, and he claimed anything could be done with x's and y's and a's,
and such things, by mixing them up with plenty of plusses and minuses and
equals, and so forth. But he never said anything, so far as



225
I can remember, about counting up to the odd number of seventeen by the even
numbers of twos."

"Stop! stop!" cried the Pumpkinhead. "You're making my head ache."

"And mine," added the Scarecrow. "Your mathematics seem to me very like a
bottle of mixed pickles the more you fish for what you want the less chance
you have of getting it. I am certain that if the thing can be accomplished
at all, it is in a very simple manner."

"Yes," said Tip. "old Mombi couldn't use x's and minuses, for she never went
to school."

"Why not start counting at a half of one?" asked the Saw-Horse, abruptly.
"Then anyone can count up to seventeen by twos very easily."

They looked at each other in surprise, for the Saw-Horse was considered the
most stupid of the entire party.

"You make me quite ashamed of myself," said the Scarecrow, bowing low to the
Saw-Horse.

"Nevertheless, the creature is right," declared the Woggle-Bug; for twice
one-half is one, and if you get to one it is easy to count from one up to
seventeen by twos."

"I wonder I didn't think of that myself," said the Pumpkinhead.



226

"I don't," returned the Scarecrow. "You're no wiser than the rest of us, are
you? But let us make a wish at once. Who will swallow the first pill?"

"Suppose you do it," suggested Tip.

"I can't," said the Scarecrow.

"Why not? You've a mouth, haven't you?" asked the boy.

"Yes; but my mouth is painted on, and there's no swallow connected with it,'
answered the Scarecrow. "In fact," he continued, looking from one to another
critically, "I believe the boy and the Woggle-Bug are the only ones in our
party that are able to swallow."

Observing the truth of this remark, Tip said:

"Then I will undertake to make the first wish. Give me one of the Silver
Pills."

This the Scarecrow tried to do; but his padded gloves were too clumsy to
clutch so small an object, and he held the box toward the boy while Tip
selected one of the pills and swallowed it.

"Count!" cried the Scarecrow.

"One-half, one, three, five, seven, nine, eleven,!" counted Tip. thirteen,
fifteen, seventeen.

"Now wish!" said the Tin Woodman anxiously:

But Just then the boy began to suffer such fearful pains that he became
alarmed.



227

"The pill has poisoned me!" he gasped; "O--h! O-o-o-o-o! Ouch! Murder!
Fire! O-o-h!" and here he rolled upon the bottom of the nest in such
contortions that he frightened them all.

"What can we do for you. Speak, I beg!" entreated the Tin Woodman, tears of
sympathy running down his nickel cheeks.

"I--I don't know!" answered Tip. "O--h! I wish I'd never swallowed that
pill!"

Then at once the pain stopped, and the boy rose to his feet again and found
the Scarecrow looking with amazement at the end of the pepper-box.

"What's happened?" asked the boy, a little ashamed of his recent exhibition.

"Why, the three pills are in the box again!" said the Scarecrow.

"Of course they are," the Woggle-Bug declared. "Didn't Tip wish that he'd
never swallowed one of them? Well, the wish came true, and he didn't swallow
one of them. So of course they are all three in the box."

"That may be; but the pill gave me a dreadful pain, just the same," said the
boy.

"Impossible!" declared the Woggle-

               Line-Art Drawing



228
Bug. "If you have never swallowed it, the pill can not have given you a
pain. And as your wish, being granted, proves you did not swallow the pill,
it is also plain that you suffered no pain."

"Then it was a splendid imitation of a pain," retorted Tip, angrily.
"Suppose you try the next pill yourself. We've wasted one wish already."

"Oh, no, we haven't!" protested the Scarecrow. "Here are still three pills
in the box, and each pill is good for a wish."

"Now you're making my head ache," said Tip. "I can't understand the thing at
all. But I won't take another pill, I promise you!" and with this remark he
retired sulkily to the back of the nest.

"Well," said the Woggle-Bug, "it remains for me to save us in my most Highly
Magnified and Thoroughly Educated manner; for I seem to be the only one able
and willing to make a wish. Let me have one of the pills."

He swallowed it without hesitation, and they all stood admiring his courage
while the Insect counted seventeen by twos in the same way that Tip had
done. And for some reason--perhaps because Woggle-Bugs have stronger
stomachs than boys--the silver pellet caused it no pain whatever.

"I wish the Gump's broken wings mended, and



229
as good as new!" said the Woggle-Bug, in a slow; impressive voice.

All turned to look at the Thing, and so quickly had the wish been granted
that the Gump lay before them in perfect repair, and as well able to fly
through the air as when it had first been brought to life on the roof of the
palace.


               Line-Art Drawing



230               Full page line-art drawing.



231               The Scarecrow Appeals to Glinda the Good


"Hooray!" shouted the Scarecrow, gaily. "We can now leave this miserable
Jackdaws' nest whenever we please."

"But it is nearly dark," said the Tin Woodman; "and unless we wait until
morning to make our flight we may get into more trouble. I don't like these
night trips, for one never knows what will happen."

So it was decided to wait until daylight, and the adventurers amused
themselves in the twilight by searching the Jackdaws' nest for treasures.

The Woggle-Bug found two handsome bracelets of wrought gold, which fitted
his slender arms very well. The Scarecrow took a fancy for rings, of which
there were many in the nest. Before long he



232
had fitted a ring to each finger of his padded gloves, and not being content
with that display he added one more to each thumb. As he carefully chose
those rings set with sparkling stones, such as rubies, amethysts and
sapphires, the Scarecrow's hands now presented a most brilliant appearance.

"This nest would be a picnic for Queen Jinjur," said he, musingly. "for as
nearly as I can make out she and her girls conquered me merely to rob my
city of its emeralds."

The Tin Woodman was content with his diamond necklace and refused to accept
any additional decorations; but Tip secured a fine gold watch, which was
attached to a heavy fob, and placed it in his pocket with much pride. He
also pinned several jeweled brooches to Jack Pumpkinhead's red waistcoat,
and attached a lorgnette, by means of a fine chain, to the neck of the
Saw-Horse.

"It's very pretty," said the creature, regarding the lorgnette approvingly;
"but what is it for?"

None of them could answer that question, however; so the Saw-Horse decided
it was some rare decoration and became very fond of it.

That none of the party might be slighted, they ended by placing several
large seal rings upon the points of the Gump's antlers, although that odd



233
personage seemed by no means gratified by the attention.

Darkness soon fell upon them, and Tip and the Woggle-Bug went to sleep while
the others sat down to wait patiently for the day.

Next morning they had cause to congratulate themselves upon the useful
condition of the Gump; for with daylight a great flock of Jackdaws
approached to engage in one more battle for the possession of the nest.

But our adventurers did not wait for the assault. They tumbled into the
cushioned seats of the sofas as quickly as possible, and Tip gave the word
to the Gump to start.

At once it rose into the air, the great wings flopping strongly and with
regular motions, and in a few moments they were so far from the nest that
the chattering Jackdaws took possession without any attempt at pursuit.

The Thing flew due North, going in the same direction from whence it had
come. At least, that was the Scarecrow's opinion, and the others agreed that
the Scarecrow was the best judge of direction. After passing over several
cities and villages the Gump carried them high above a broad plain where
houses became more and more scattered until they



234
disappeared altogether. Next came the wide, sandy desert separating the rest
of the world from the Land of Oz, and before noon they saw the dome-shaped
houses that proved they were once more within the borders of their native
land.

"But the houses and fences are blue," said the Tin Woodman, "and that
indicates we are in the land of the Munchkins, and therefore a long distance
from Glinda the Good."

"What shall we do?" asked the boy, turning to their guide.

"I don't know" replied the Scarecrow, frankly. "If we were at the Emerald
City we could then move directly southward, and so reach our destination.
But we dare not go to the Emerald City, and the Gump is probably carrying us
further in the wrong direction with every flop of its wings."

"Then the Woggle-Bug must swallow another pill," said Tip, decidedly, "and
wish us headed in the right direction."

"Very well," returned the Highly Magnified one; "I'm willing."

But when the Scarecrow searched in his pocket for the pepper-box containing
the two silver Wishing Pills, it was not to be found. Filled with anxiety,
the voyagers hunted throughout every inch of the



235
Thing for the precious box; but it had disappeared entirely.

And still the Gump flew onward, carrying them they knew not where.

"I must have left the pepper-box in the Jackdaws' nest," said the Scarecrow,
at length.

"It is a great misfortune," the Tin Woodman declared. "But we are no worse
off than before we discovered the Wishing Pills."

"We are better off," replied Tip. "for the one pill we used has enabled us
to escape from that horrible nest."

"Yet the loss of the other two is serious, and I deserve a good scolding for
my carelessness," the Scarecrow rejoined, penitently. "For in such an
unusual party as this accidents are liable to happen any moment, and even
now we may be approaching a new danger."

No one dared contradict this, and a dismal silence ensued.

The Gump flew steadily on.

Suddenly Tip uttered an exclamation of surprise. "We must have reached the
South Country," he cried, "for below us everything is red!"

Immediately they all leaned over the backs of the sofas to look--all
except Jack, who was too careful



236
of his pumpkin head to risk its slipping off his neck. Sure enough; the red
houses and fences and trees indicated they were within the domain of Glinda
the Good; and presently, as they glided rapidly on, the Tin Woodman
recognized the roads and buildings they passed, and altered slightly the
flight of

               Line-Art Drawing



237
the Gump so that they might reach the palace of the celebrated Sorceress.

"Good!" cried the Scarecrow, delightedly. "We do not need the lost Wishing
Pills now, for we have arrived at our destination."

Gradually the Thing sank lower and nearer to the ground until at length it
came to rest within the beautiful gardens of Glinda, settling upon a velvety
green lawn close by a fountain which sent sprays of flashing gems, instead
of water, high into the air, whence they fell with a soft, tinkling sound
into the carved marble basin placed to receive them.

Everything was very gorgeous in Glinda's gardens, and while our voyagers
gazed about with admiring eyes a company of soldiers silently appeared and
surrounded them. But these soldiers of the great Sorceress were entirely
different from those of Jinjur's Army of Revolt, although they were likewise
girls. For Glinda's soldiers wore neat uniforms and bore swords and spears;
and they marched with a skill and precision that proved them well trained in
the arts of war.

The Captain commanding this troop--which was Glinda's private Body
Guard--recognized the Scarecrow and the Tin Woodman at once, and greeted them
with respectful salutations.



238

"Good day!" said the Scarecrow, gallantly removing his hat, while the
Woodman gave a soldierly salute; "we have come to request an audience with
your fair Ruler."

"Glinda is now within her palace, awaiting you," returned the Captain; "for
she saw you coming long before you arrived."

"That is strange!" said Tip, wondering.

"Not at all," answered the Scarecrow, "for Glinda the Good is a mighty
Sorceress, and nothing that goes on in the Land of Oz escapes her notice. I
suppose she knows why we came as well as we do ourselves."

"Then what was the use of our coming?" asked Jack, stupidly.

"To prove you are a Pumpkinhead!" retorted the Scarecrow. "But, if the
Sorceress expects us, we must not keep her waiting."

               Line-Art Drawing



239

So they all clambered out of the sofas and followed the Captain toward the
palace--even the Saw-Horse taking his place in the queer procession.

Upon her throne of finely wrought gold sat Glinda, and she could scarcely
repress a smile as her peculiar visitors entered and bowed before her. Both
the Scarecrow and the Tin Woodman she knew and liked; but the awkward
Pumpkinhead and Highly Magnified Woggle-Bug were creatures she had never
seen before, and they seemed even more curious than the others. As for the
Saw-Horse, he looked to be nothing more than an animated chunk of wood; and
he bowed so stiffly that his head bumped against the floor, causing a ripple
of laughter among the soldiers, in which Glinda frankly joined.

"I beg to announce to your glorious highness," began the Scarecrow, in a
solemn voice, "that my Emerald City has been overrun by a crowd of impudent
girls with knitting-needles, who have enslaved all the men, robbed the
streets and public buildings of all their emerald jewels, and usurped my
throne."

"I know it," said Glinda.

"They also threatened to destroy me, as well as all the good friends and
allies you see before you," continued the Scarecrow. "and had we not managed



240
to escape their clutches our days would long since have ended."

"I know it," repeated Glinda.

"Therefore I have come to beg your assistance," resumed the Scarecrow, "for
I believe you are always glad to succor the unfortunate and oppressed."

"That is true," replied the Sorceress, slowly. "But the Emerald City is now
ruled by General Jinjur, who has caused herself to be proclaimed Queen. What
right have I to oppose her?"

"Why, she stole the throne from me," said the Scarecrow.

"And how came you to possess the throne?" asked Glinda.

"I got it from the Wizard of Oz, and by the choice of the people," returned
the Scarecrow, uneasy at such questioning.

"And where did the Wizard get it?" she continued gravely.

"I am told he took it from Pastoria, the former King," said the Scarecrow,
becoming confused under the intent look of the Sorceress.

"Then," declared Glinda, "the throne of the Emerald City belongs neither to
you nor to Jinjur, but to this Pastoria from whom the Wizard usurped it."

"That is true," acknowledged the Scarecrow,



241
humbly; "but Pastoria is now dead and gone, and some one must rule in his
place."

"Pastoria had a daughter, who is the rightful heir to the throne of the
Emerald City. Did you know that?" questioned the Sorceress.

"No," replied the Scarecrow. "But if the girl still lives I will not stand
in her way. It will satisfy me as well to have Jinjur turned out, as an
impostor, as to regain the throne myself. In fact, it isn't much fun to be
King, especially if one has good brains. I have known for some time that I
am fitted to occupy a far more exalted position. But where is the girl who
owns the throne, and what is her name?"

"Her name is Ozma," answered Glinda. "But where she is I have tried in vain
to discover. For the Wizard of Oz, when he stole the throne from Ozma's
father, hid the girl in some secret place; and by means of a magical trick
with which I am not familiar he also managed to prevent her being discovered--even
by so experienced a Sorceress as myself."

"That is strange," interrupted the Woggle-Bug, pompously. "I have been
informed that the Wonderful Wizard of Oz was nothing more than a humbug!"



242

"Nonsense!" exclaimed the Scarecrow, much provoked by this speech. "Didn't
he give me a wonderful set of brains?"

"There's no humbug about my heart," announced the Tin Woodman, glaring
indignantly at the Woggle-Bug.

"Perhaps I was misinformed," stammered the Insect, shrinking back; "I never
knew the Wizard personally."

"Well, we did," retorted the Scarecrow, "and he was a very great Wizard, I
assure you. It is true he was guilty of some slight impostures, but unless
he was a great Wizard how--let me ask--could he have hidden this girl
Ozma so securely that no one can find her?"

"I--I give it up!" replied the Woggle-Bug, meekly.

"That is the most sensible speech you've made," said the Tin Woodman.

"I must really make another effort to discover where this girl is hidden,"
resumed the Sorceress, thoughtfully. "I have in my library a book in which
is inscribed every action of the Wizard while he was in our land of Oz--or,
at least, every action that could be observed by my spies. This book I
will read carefully tonight, and try to single out the acts that may guide
us in discovering the lost Ozma. In



243
the meantime, pray amuse yourselves in my palace and command my servants as
if they were your own. I will grant you another audience tomorrow."

With this gracious speech Glinda dismissed the adventurers, and they
wandered away through the beautiful gardens, where they passed several hours
enjoying all the delightful things with which the Queen of the Southland had
surrounded her royal palace.

On the following morning they again appeared before Glinda, who said to
them:

"I have searched carefully through the records of the Wizard's actions, and
among them I can find but three that appear to have been suspicious. He ate
beans with a knife, made three secret visits to old Mombi, and limped
slightly on his left foot."

"Ah! that last is certainly suspicious!" exclaimed the Pumpkinhead.

"Not necessarily," said the Scarecrow. "he may, have had corns. Now, it
seems to me his eating beans with a knife is more suspicious."

"Perhaps it is a polite custom in Omaha, from which great country the Wizard
originally came," suggested the Tin Woodman.

"It may be," admitted the Scarecrow.



244

"But why," asked Glinda, "did he make three secret visits to old Mombi?"

"Ah! Why, indeed!" echoed the Woggle-Bug, impressively.

"We know that the Wizard taught the old woman many of his tricks of magic,"
continued Glinda; "and this he would not have done had she not assisted him
in some way. So we may suspect with good reason that Mombi aided him to hide
the girl Ozma, who was the real heir to the throne of the Emerald City, and
a constant danger to the usurper. For, if the people knew that she lived,
they would quickly make her their Queen and restore her to her rightful
position."

"An able argument!" cried the Scarecrow. "I have no doubt that Mombi was
mixed up in this wicked business. But how does that knowledge help us?"

"We must find Mombi," replied Glinda, "and force her to tell where the girl
is hidden."

"Mombi is now with Queen Jinjur, in the Emerald, City" said Tip. "It was she
who threw so many obstacles in our pathway, and made Jinjur threaten to
destroy my friends and give me back into the old witch's power."

"Then," decided Glinda, "I will march with my



245
army to the Emerald City, and take Mombi prisoner. After that we can,
perhaps, force her to tell the truth about Ozma."

"She is a terrible old woman!" remarked Tip, with a shudder at the thought
of Mombi's black kettle; "and obstinate, too."

"I am quite obstinate myself," returned the Sorceress, with a sweet smile.
"so I do not fear Mombi in the least. Today I will make all necessary
preparations, and we will march upon the Emerald City at daybreak tomorrow."

               Line-Art Drawing



246               The Tin-Woodman Plucks a Rose


The Army of Glinda the Good looked very grand and imposing when it assembled
at daybreak before the palace gates. The uniforms of the girl soldiers were
pretty and of gay colors, and their silver-tipped spears were bright and
glistening, the long shafts being inlaid with mother-of-pearl. All the
officers wore sharp, gleaming swords, and shields edged with peacock-feathers;
and it really seemed that no foe could by any possibility defeat
such a brilliant army.

The Sorceress rode in a beautiful palanquin which was like the body of a
coach, having doors and



247
windows with silken curtains; but instead of wheels, which a coach has, the
palanquin rested upon two long, horizontal bars, which were borne upon the
shoulders of twelve servants.

The Scarecrow and his comrades decided to ride in the Gump, in order to keep
up with the swift march of the army; so, as soon as Glinda had started and
her soldiers had marched away to the inspiring strains of music played by
the royal band, our friends climbed into the sofas and followed. The Gump
flew along slowly at a point directly over the palanquin in which rode the
Sorceress.

"Be careful," said the

               Line-Art Drawing



248
Tin Woodman to the Scarecrow, who was leaning far over the side to look at
the army below. "You might fall."

"It wouldn't matter," remarked the educated Woggle-Bug. "he can't get broke
so long as he is stuffed with money."

"Didn't I ask you" began Tip, in a reproachful voice.

"You did!" said the Woggle-Bug, promptly. "And I beg your pardon. I will
really try to restrain myself."

"You'd better," declared the boy. "That is, if you wish to travel in our
company."

"Ah! I couldn't bear to part with you now," murmured the Insect, feelingly;
so Tip let the subject drop.

The army moved steadily on, but night had fallen before they came to the
walls of the Emerald City. By the dim light of the new moon, however,
Glinda's forces silently surrounded the city and pitched their tents of
scarlet silk upon the greensward. The tent of the Sorceress was larger than
the others, and was composed of pure white silk, with scarlet banners flying
above it. A tent was also pitched for the Scarecrow's party; and when these
preparations had been made, with military precision and quickness, the army
retired to rest.



249

Great was the amazement of Queen Jinjur next morning when her soldiers came
running to inform her of the vast army surrounding them. She at once climbed
to a high tower of the royal palace and saw banners waving in every
direction and the great white tent of Glinda standing directly before the
gates.

"We are surely lost!" cried Jinjur, in despair; "for how can our
knitting-needles avail against the long spears and terrible swords of our foes?"

"The best thing we can do," said one of the girls, "is to surrender as
quickly as possible, before we get hurt."

"Not so," returned Jinjur, more bravely. "The enemy is still outside the
walls, so we must try to gain time by engaging them in parley. Go you with a
flag of truce to Glinda and ask her why she has dared to invade my
dominions, and what are her demands."

So the girl passed through the gates, bearing a white flag to show she was
on a mission of peace, and came to Glinda's tent. "Tell your Queen," said
the Sorceress to the girl, "that she must deliver up to me old Mombi, to be
my prisoner. If this is done I will not molest her farther."

               Line-Art Drawing



250

Now when this message was delivered to the Queen it filled her with dismay,
for Mombi was her chief counsellor, and Jinjur was terribly afraid of the
old hag. But she sent for Mombi, and told her what Glinda had said.

"I see trouble ahead for all of us," muttered the old witch, after glancing
into a magic mirror she carried in her pocket. "But we may even yet escape
by deceiving this sorceress, clever as she thinks herself."

"Don't you think it will be safer for me to deliver you into her hands?"
asked Jinjur, nervously.

"If you do, it will cost you the throne of the Emerald City!" answered the
witch, positively. "But if you will let me have my own way, I can save us
both very easily."

"Then do as you please," replied Jinjur, "for it is so aristocratic to be a
Queen that I do not wish to be obliged to return home again, to make beds
and wash dishes for my mother."

So Mombi called Jellia Jamb to her, and performed a certain magical rite
with which she was familiar. As a result of the enchantment Jellia took on
the form and features of Mombi, while the old witch grew to resemble the
girl so closely that it seemed impossible anyone could guess the deception.



251

"Now," said old Mombi to the Queen, "let your soldiers deliver up this girl
to Glinda. She will think she has the real Mombi in her power, and so will
return immediately to her own country in the South."

Therefore Jellia, hobbling along like an aged


               Line-Art Drawing


woman, was led from the city gates and taken before Glinda.

"Here is the person you demanded," said one of the guards, "and our Queen
now begs you will go away, as you promised, and leave us in peace."

"That I will surely do," replied Glinda, much pleased; "if this is really
the person she seems to be."

"It is certainly old Mombi," said the guard, who believed she was speaking
the truth; and then Jinjur's soldiers returned within the city's gates.



252

The Sorceress quickly summoned the Scarecrow and his friends to her tent,
and began to question the supposed Mombi about the lost girl Ozma. But
Jellia knew nothing at all of this affair, and presently she grew so nervous
under the questioning that she gave way and began to weep, to Glinda's great
astonishment.

"Here is some foolish trickery!" said the Sorceress, her eyes flashing with
anger. "This is not Mombi at all, but some other person who has been made to
resemble her! Tell me," she demanded, turning to the trembling girl, "what
is your name?"

This Jellia dared not tell, having been threatened with death by the witch
if she confessed the fraud. But Glinda, sweet and fair though she was,
understood magic better than any other person in the Land of Oz. So, by
uttering a few potent words and making a peculiar gesture, she quickly
transformed the girl into her proper shape, while at the same time old
Mombi, far away in Jinjur's palace, suddenly resumed her own crooked form
and evil features.

"Why, it's Jellia Jamb!" cried the Scarecrow, recognizing in the girl one of
his old friends.

"It's our interpreter!" said the Pumpkinhead, smiling pleasantly.

Then Jellia was forced to tell of the trick Mombi



253
               Line-Art Drawing

had played and she also begged Glinda's protection, which the Sorceress
readily granted. But Glinda was now really angry, and sent word to Jinjur
that the fraud was discovered and she must deliver up the real Mombi or
suffer terrible consequences. Jinjur was prepared for this message, for the
witch well understood, when her natural form was thrust upon her, that
Glinda had discovered her trickery. But the wicked old creature had already
thought up a new deception, and had made Jinjur promise to carry it out. So
the Queen said to Glinda's messenger:

"Tell your mistress that I cannot find Mombi anywhere, but that Glinda is
welcome to enter the



254
city and search herself for the old woman. She may also bring her friends
with her, if she likes; but if she does not find Mombi by sundown, the
Sorceress must promise to go away peaceably and bother us no more."

Glinda agreed to these terms, well knowing that Mombi was somewhere within
the city walls. So Jinjur caused the gates to be thrown open, and Glinda
marched in at the head of a company of soldiers, followed by the Scarecrow
and the Tin Woodman, while Jack Pumpkinhead rode astride the Saw-Horse, and
the Educated, Highly Magnified Woggle-Bug sauntered behind in a dignified
manner. Tip walked by the side of the Sorceress, for Glinda had conceived a
great liking for the boy.

Of course old Mombi had no intention of being found by Glinda; so, while her
enemies were marching up the street, the witch transformed herself into a
red rose growing upon a bush in the garden of the palace. It was a clever
idea, and a trick Glinda did not suspect; so several precious hours were
spent in a vain search for Mombi.

As sundown approached the Sorceress realized she had been defeated by the
superior cunning of the aged witch; so she gave the command to her people to
march out of the city and back to their tents.

The Scarecrow and his comrades happened to be



255
searching in the garden of the palace just then, and they turned with
disappointment to obey Glinda's command. But before they left the garden the
Tin Woodman, who was fond of flowers, chanced to espy a big red rose growing
upon a bush; so he plucked the flower and fastened it securely in the tin
buttonhole of his tin bosom.

As he did this he fancied he heard a low moan proceed from the rose; but he
paid no attention to the sound, and Mombi was thus carried out of the city
and into Glinda's camp without anyone having a suspicion that they had
succeeded in their quest.


               Line-Art Drawing



256               The Transformation of Old Mombi


The Witch was at first frightened at finding herself captured by the enemy;
but soon she decided that she was exactly as safe in the Tin Woodman's
button-hole as growing upon the bush. For no one knew the rose and Mombi to
be one, and now that she was without the gates of the City her chances of
escaping altogether from Glinda were much improved.

"But there is no hurry," thought Mombi. "I will wait awhile and enjoy the
humiliation of this Sorceress when she finds I have outwitted her." So
throughout the night the rose lay quietly on the Woodman's bosom, and in the
morning, when Glinda summoned our friends to a consultation, Nick Chopper
carried his pretty flower with him to the white silk tent.



257               Line-Art Drawing


"For some reason," said Glinda, "we have failed to find this cunning old
Mombi; so I fear our expedition will prove a failure. And for that I am
sorry, because without our assistance little Ozma will never be rescued and
restored to her rightful position as Queen of the Emerald City"

"Do not let us give up so easily," said the Pumpkinhead. "Let us do
something else."

"Something else must really be done," replied Glinda, with a smile. "yet I
cannot understand how I have been defeated so easily by an old Witch who
knows far less of magic than I do myself."

"While we are on the ground I believe it would be wise for us to conquer the
Emerald City for Princess Ozma, and find the girl afterward," said the
Scarecrow." And while the girl remains hidden I will gladly rule in her
place, for I understand the business of ruling much better than Jinjur
does."



258

"But I have promised not to molest Jinjur," objected Glinda.

"Suppose you all return with me to my kingdom--or Empire, rather," said
the Tin Woodman, politely including the entire party in a royal wave of his
arm. "It will give me great pleasure to entertain you in my castle, where
there is room enough and to spare. And if any of you wish to be nickel-
plated, my valet will do it free of all expense."

While the Woodman was speaking Glinda's eyes had been noting the rose in his
button-hole, and now she imagined she saw the big red leaves of the flower
tremble slightly. This quickly aroused her suspicions, and in a moment more
the Sorceress had decided that the seeming rose was nothing else than a
transformation of old Mombi. At the same instant Mombi knew she was
discovered and must quickly plan an escape, and as transformations were easy
to her she immediately took the form of a Shadow and glided along the wall
of the tent toward the entrance, thinking thus to disappear.

But Glinda had not only equal cunning, but far more experience than the
Witch. So the Sorceress reached the opening of the tent before the Shadow,
and with a wave of her hand closed the entrance so securely that Mombi could
not find a crack big



259
enough to creep through. The Scarecrow and his friends were greatly
surprised at Glinda's actions; for none of them had noted the Shadow. But
the Sorceress said to them:

"Remain perfectly quiet, all of you! For the old Witch is even now with us
in this tent, and I hope to capture her."

These words so alarmed Mombi that she quickly transformed herself from a
shadow to a Black Ant, in which shape she crawled along the ground, seeking
a crack or crevice in which to hide her tiny body.

Fortunately, the ground where the tent had been pitched, being Just before
the city gates, was hard and smooth; and while the Ant still crawled about,
Glinda discovered it and ran quickly forward to effect its capture But, Just
as her hand was descending, the Witch, now fairly frantic with fear, made
her last transformation, and in the form of a huge Griffin sprang through
the wall of the tent--tearing the silk asunder in her rush--and in a
moment had darted away with the speed of a whirlwind.

Glinda did not hesitate to follow. She sprang upon the back of the Saw-Horse
and cried:

"Now you shall prove that you have a right to be alive! Run--run--run!"

The Saw-Horse ran. Like a flash he followed the



260
Griffin, his wooden legs moving so fast that they twinkled like the rays of
a star. Before our friends could recover from their surprise both the
Griffin and the Saw-Horse had dashed out of sight.

"Come! Let us follow!" cried the Scarecrow.

They ran to the place where the Gump was lying and quickly tumbled aboard.

"Fly!" commanded Tip, eagerly.

"Where to?" asked the Gump, in its calm voice.

"I don't know," returned Tip, who was very nervous at the delay; "but if you
will mount into the air I think we can discover which way Glinda has gone."

               Line-Art Drawing



261

"Very well," returned the Gump, quietly; and it spread its great wings and
mounted high into the air.

Far away, across the meadows, they could now see two tiny specks, speeding
one after the other; and they knew these specks must be the Griffin and the
Saw-Horse. So Tip called the Gump's attention to them and bade the creature
try to overtake the Witch and the Sorceress. But, swift as was the Gump's
flight, the pursued and pursuer moved more swiftly yet, and within a few
moments were blotted out against the dim horizon.

"Let us continue to follow them, nevertheless," said the Scarecrow. "for the
Land of Oz is of small extent, and sooner or later they must both come to a
halt."

Old Mombi had thought herself very wise to choose the form of a Griffin, for
its legs were exceedingly fleet and its strength more enduring than that of
other animals. But she had not reckoned on the untiring energy of the
Saw-Horse, whose wooden limbs could run for days without slacking their speed.
Therefore, after an hour's hard running, the Griffin's breath began to fail,
and it panted and gasped painfully, and moved more slowly than before. Then
it reached the edge of the desert and began racing across the deep sands.
But its tired feet sank far



262
into the sand, and in a few minutes the Griffin fell forward, completely
exhausted, and lay still upon the desert waste.

Glinda came up a moment later, riding the still vigorous Saw-Horse; and
having unwound a slender golden thread from her girdle the Sorceress threw
it over the head of the panting and helpless Griffin, and so destroyed the
magical power of Mombi's transformation.

For the animal, with one fierce shudder, disappeared from view, while in its
place was discovered the form of the old Witch, glaring savagely at the
serene and beautiful face of the Sorceress.

               Line-Art Drawing



263               Full page line-art drawing.



264               Princess Ozma of Oz


"You are my prisoner, and it is useless for you to struggle any longer,"
said Glinda, in her soft, sweet voice. "Lie still a moment, and rest
yourself, and then I will carry you back to my tent."

"Why do you seek me?" asked Mombi, still scarce able to speak plainly for
lack of breath. "What have I done to you, to be so persecuted?"

"You have done nothing to me," answered the gentle Sorceress; "but I suspect
you have been guilty of several wicked actions; and if I find it is true
that you have so abused your knowledge of magic, I intend to punish you
severely."

"I defy you!" croaked the old hag. "You dare not harm me!"

Just then the Gump flew up to them and alighted upon the desert sands beside
Glinda. Our friends



265
were delighted to find that Mombi had finally been captured, and after a
hurried consultation it was decided they should all return to the camp in
the Gump. So the Saw-Horse was tossed aboard, and then Glinda still holding
an end of the golden thread that was around Mombi's neck, forced her
prisoner to climb into the sofas. The others now followed, and Tip gave the
word to the Gump to return.

The Journey was made in safety, Mombi sitting in her place with a grim and
sullen air; for the old hag was absolutely helpless so long as the magical
thread encircled her throat. The army hailed Glinda's return with loud
cheers, and the party of friends soon gathered again in the royal tent,
which had been neatly repaired during their absence.

"Now," said the Sorceress to Mombi, "I want you to tell us why the Wonderful
Wizard of Oz paid you three visits, and what became of the child, Ozma,
which so curiously disappeared."

The Witch looked at Glinda defiantly, but said not a word.

"Answer me!" cried the Sorceress.

But still Mombi remained silent.

"Perhaps she doesn't know," remarked Jack.

"I beg you will keep quiet," said Tip. "You might spoil everything with your
foolishness."



266

"Very well, dear father!" returned the Pumpkinhead, meekly.

"How glad I am to be a Woggle-Bug!" murmured the Highly Magnified Insect,
softly. "No one can expect wisdom to flow from a pumpkin."

"Well," said the Scarecrow, "what shall we do to make Mombi speak? Unless
she tells us what we wish to know her capture will do us no good at all."

"Suppose we try kindness," suggested the Tin Woodman. "I've heard that
anyone can be conquered with kindness, no matter how ugly they may be."

At this the Witch turned to glare upon him so horribly that the Tin Woodman
shrank back abashed.

Glinda had been carefully considering what to do, and now she turned to
Mombi and said:

"You will gain nothing, I assure you, by thus defying us. For I am
determined to learn the truth about the girl Ozma, and unless you tell me
all that you know, I will certainly put you to death."

"Oh, no! Don't do that!" exclaimed the Tin Woodman. "It would be an awful
thing to kill anyone--even old Mombi!"

"But it is merely a threat," returned Glinda. "I shall not put Mombi to
death, because she will prefer to tell me the truth."

"Oh, I see!" said the tin man, much relieved.



267

"Suppose I tell you all that you wish to know,". said Mombi, speaking so
suddenly that she startled them all. "What will you do with me then?"

"In that case," replied Glinda, "I shall merely ask you to drink a powerful
draught which will cause you to forget all the magic you have ever learned."

"Then I would become a helpless old woman!"

"But you would be alive," suggested the Pumpkinhead, consolingly.

"Do try to keep silent!" said Tip, nervously.

"I'll try," responded Jack; "but you will admit that it's a good thing to be
alive."

"Especially if one happens to be Thoroughly Educated," added the Woggle-Bug,
nodding approval.

"You may make your choice," Glinda said to old Mombi, "between death if you
remain silent, and the loss of your magical powers if you tell me the truth.
But I think you will prefer to live.

Mombi cast an uneasy glance at the Sorceress, and saw that she was in
earnest, and not to be trifled with. So she replied, slowly:

"I will answer your questions."

"That is what I expected," said Glinda, pleasantly. "You have chosen wisely,
I assure you."

She then motioned to one of her Captains, who brought her a beautiful golden
casket. From this



268
the Sorceress drew an immense white pearl, attached to a slender chain which
she placed around her neck in such a way that the pearl rested upon her
bosom, directly over her heart.

"Now," said she, "I will ask my first question: Why did the Wizard pay you
three visits?"

"Because I would not come to him," answered Mombi.

"That is no answer," said Glinda, sternly. "Tell me the truth."

"Well," returned Mombi, with downcast eyes, "he visited me to learn the way
I make tea-biscuits."

"Look up!" commanded the Sorceress.

Mombi obeyed.

"What is the color of my pearl?" demanded Glinda.

"Why--it is black!" replied the old Witch, in a tone of wonder.

"Then you have told me a falsehood!" cried Glinda, angrily. "Only when the
truth is spoken will my magic pearl remain a pure white in color."

Mombi now saw how useless it was to try to deceive the Sorceress; so she
said, meanwhile scowling at her defeat:

"The Wizard brought to me the girl Ozma, who was then no more than a baby,
and begged me to conceal the child."



269

"That is what I thought," declared Glinda, calmly. "What did he give you for
thus serving him?"

"He taught me all the magical tricks he knew. Some were good tricks, and
some were only frauds; but I have remained faithful to my promise."

"What did you do with the girl?" asked Glinda; and at this question everyone
bent forward and listened eagerly for the reply.

"I enchanted her," answered Mombi.

"In what way?"

"I transformed her into--into--"

"Into what?" demanded Glinda, as the Witch hesitated.

"Into a boy!" said Mombi, in a low tone."

A boy!" echoed every voice; and then, because they knew that this old woman
had reared Tip from childhood, all eyes were turned to where the boy stood.

"Yes," said the old Witch, nodding her head; "that is the Princess Ozma--the
child brought to me by the Wizard who stole her father's throne. That is
the rightful ruler of the Emerald City!" and she pointed her long bony
finger straight at the boy.

"I!" cried Tip, in amazement. "Why, I'm no Princess Ozma--I'm not a girl!"

Glinda smiled, and going to Tip she took his small brown hand within her
dainty white one.



270               Full page line-art drawing.

               MOMBI POINTED HER LONG, BONY FINGER AT THE BOY



271

"You are not a girl just now" said she, gently, "because Mombi transformed
you into a boy. But you were born a girl, and also a Princess; so you must
resume your proper form, that you may become Queen of the Emerald City."

"Oh, let Jinjur be the Queen!" exclaimed Tip, ready to cry. "I want to stay
a boy, and travel with the Scarecrow and the Tin Woodman, and the Woggle-
Bug, and Jack--yes! and my friend the Saw-Horse--and the Gump! I don't
want to be a girl!"

"Never mind, old chap," said the Tin Woodman, soothingly; "it don't hurt to
be a girl, I'm told; and we will all remain your faithful friends just the
same. And, to be honest with you, I've always considered girls nicer than
boys."

"They're just as nice, anyway," added the Scarecrow, patting Tip
affectionately upon the head.

"And they are equally good students," proclaimed the Woggle-Bug. "I should
like to become your tutor, when you are transformed into a girl again."

"But--see here!" said Jack Pumpkinhead, with a gasp: "if you become a
girl, you can't be my dear father any more!"

"No," answered Tip, laughing in spite of his anxiety. "and I shall not be
sorry to escape the relationship." Then he added, hesitatingly, as he turned
to



272               Line-Art Drawing

Glinda: "I might try it for awhile,-just to see how it seems, you know. But
if I don't like being a girl you must promise to change me into a boy
again."

"Really," said the Sorceress, "that is beyond my magic. I never deal in
transformations, for they are not honest, and no respectable sorceress likes
to make things appear to be what they are not. Only unscrupulous witches use
the art, and therefore I must ask Mombi to effect your release from her
charm, and restore you to your proper form. It will be the last opportunity
she will have to practice magic."



273

Now that the truth about Princes Ozma had been discovered, Mombi did not
care what became of Tip; but she feared Glinda's anger, and the boy
generously promised to provide for Mombi in her old age if he became the
ruler of the Emerald City. So the Witch consented to effect the
transformation, and preparations for the event were at once made.

Glinda ordered her own royal couch to be placed in the center of the tent.
It was piled high with cushions covered with rose-colored silk, and from a
golden railing above hung many folds of pink gossamer, completely concealing
the interior of the couch.

The first act of the Witch was to make the boy drink a potion which quickly
sent him into a deep and dreamless sleep. Then the Tin Woodman and the
Woggle-Bug bore him gently to the couch, placed him upon the soft cushions,
and drew the gossamer hangings to shut him from all earthly view.

The Witch squatted upon the ground and kindled a tiny fire of dried herbs,
which she drew from her bosom. When the blaze shot up and burned clearly old
Mombi scattered a handful of magical powder over the fire, which straightway
gave off a rich violet vapor, filling all the tent with its fragrance and
forcing the Saw-Horse to sneeze--although he had been warned to keep
quiet.



274               Full page line-art drawing.

               MOMBI AT HER MAGICAL INCANTATIONS.



275

Then, while the others watched her curiously, the hag chanted a rhythmical
verse in words which no one understood, and bent her lean body seven times
back and forth over the fire. And now the incantation seemed complete, for
the Witch stood upright and cried the one word "Yeowa!" in a loud voice.

The vapor floated away; the atmosphere became, clear again; a whiff of fresh
air filled the tent, and the pink curtains of the couch trembled slightly,
as if stirred from within.

Glinda walked to the canopy and parted the silken hangings. Then she bent
over the cushions, reached out her hand, and from the couch arose the form
of a young girl, fresh and beautiful as a May morning. Her eyes sparkled as
two diamonds, and her lips were tinted like a tourmaline. All adown her back
floated tresses of ruddy gold, with a slender jeweled circlet confining them
at the brow. Her robes of silken gauze floated around her like a cloud, and
dainty satin slippers shod her feet.

At this exquisite vision Tip's old comrades stared in wonder for the space
of a full minute, and then every head bent low in honest admiration of the
lovely Princess Ozma. The girl herself cast one look into Glinda's bright
face, which glowed with pleasure and satisfaction, and then turned upon the



276
others. Speaking the words with sweet diffidence, she said:

"I hope none of you will care less for me than you did before. I'm just the
same Tip, you know; only--only--"

"Only you're different!" said the Pumpkinhead; and everyone thought it was
the wisest speech he had ever made.

               Line-Art Drawing



277               Full page line-art drawing.



278               The Riches of Content


When the wonderful tidings reached the ears of Queen Jinjur--how Mombi the
Witch had been captured; how she had confessed her crime to Glinda; and how
the long-lost Princess Ozma had been discovered in no less a personage than
the boy Tip--she wept real tears of grief and despair.

"To think," she moaned, "that after having ruled as Queen, and lived in a
palace, I must go back to scrubbing floors and churning butter again! It is
too horrible to think of! I will never consent!"

So when her soldiers, who spent most of their time making fudge in the
palace kitchens, counseled Jinjur to resist, she listened to their foolish
prattle and sent a sharp defiance to Glinda the Good and the Princess Ozma.
The result was a declaration of war, and the very next day Glinda marched
upon the Emerald City with pennants flying and bands playing,



279
and a forest of shining spears, sparkling brightly beneath the sun's rays.

But when it came to the walls this brave assembly made a sudden halt; for
Jinjur had closed and barred every gateway, and the walls of the Emerald
City were builded high and thick with many blocks of green marble. Finding
her advance thus baffled, Glinda bent her brows in deep thought, while the
Woggle-Bug said, in his most positive tone:

"We must lay siege to the city, and starve it into submission. It is the
only thing we can do."

"Not so," answered the Scarecrow. "We still have the Gump, and the Gump can
still fly"

The Sorceress turned quickly at this speech, and her face now wore a bright
smile.

"You are right," she exclaimed, "and certainly have reason to be proud of
your brains. Let us go to the Gump at once!"

So they passed through the ranks of the army until they came to the place,
near the Scarecrow's tent, where the Gump lay. Glinda and Princess Ozma
mounted first, and sat upon the sofas. Then the Scarecrow and his friends
climbed aboard, and still there was room for a Captain and three soldiers,
which Glinda considered sufficient for a guard.

Now, at a word from the Princess, the queer



280               Line-Art Drawing

Thing they had called the Gump flopped its palm-leaf wings and rose into the
air, carrying the party of adventurers high above the walls. They hovered
over the palace, and soon perceived Jinjur reclining in a hammock in the
courtyard, where she was comfortably reading a novel with a green cover and
eating green chocolates, confident that the walls would protect her from her
enemies. Obeying a quick command, the Gump alighted safely in this very
courtyard, and before Jinjur had time to do more than scream, the Captain
and three soldiers



281
leaped out and made the former Queen a prisoner, locking strong chains upon
both her wrists.

That act really ended the war; for the Army of Revolt submitted as soon as
they knew Jinjur to be a captive, and the Captain marched in safety through
the streets and up to the gates of the city, which she threw wide open. Then
the bands played their most stirring music while Glinda's army marched into
the city, and heralds proclaimed the conquest of the audacious Jinjur and
the accession of the beautiful Princess Ozma to the throne of her royal
ancestors.

At once the men of the Emerald City cast off their aprons. And it is said
that the women were so tired eating of their husbands' cooking that they

               Line-Art Drawing



282
all hailed the conquest of Jinjur with Joy. Certain it is that, rushing one
and all to the kitchens of their houses, the good wives prepared so
delicious a feast for the weary men that harmony was immediately restored in
every family.

Ozma's first act was to oblige the Army of Revolt to return to her every
emerald or other gem stolen from the public streets and buildings; and so
great was the number of precious stones picked from their settings by these
vain girls, that every one of the royal jewelers worked steadily for more
than a month to replace them in their settings.

Meanwhile the Army of Revolt was disbanded and the girls sent home to their
mothers. On promise of good behavior Jinjur was likewise released.

Ozma made the loveliest Queen the Emerald City had ever known; and, although
she was so young and inexperienced, she ruled her people with wisdom and
Justice. For Glinda gave her good advice on all occasions; and the
Woggle-Bug, who was appointed to the important post of Public Educator, was quite
helpful to Ozma when her royal duties grew perplexing.

The girl, in her gratitude to the Gump for its services, offered the
creature any reward it might name.



283

"Then," replied the Gump, "please take me to pieces. I did not wish to be
brought to life, and I am greatly ashamed of my conglomerate personality.
Once I was a monarch of the forest, as my antlers fully prove; but now, in
my present upholstered condition of servitude, I am compelled to fly through
the air--my legs being of no use to me whatever. Therefore I beg to be
dispersed."

So Ozma ordered the Gump taken apart. The antlered head was again hung over
the mantle-piece in the hall, and the sofas were untied and placed in the
reception parlors. The broom tail resumed its accustomed duties in the
kitchen, and finally, the Scarecrow replaced all the clotheslines and ropes
on the pegs from which he had taken them on the eventful day when the Thing
was constructed.

You might think that was the end of the Gump; and so it was, as a
flying-machine. But the head over the mantle-piece continued to talk whenever it
took a notion to do so, and it frequently startled, with its abrupt
questions, the people who waited in the hall for an audience with the Queen.

The Saw-Horse, being Ozma's personal property, was tenderly cared for; and
often she rode the queer creature along the streets of the Emerald City. She
had its wooden legs shod with gold, to keep them



284
from wearing out, and the tinkle of these golden shoes upon the pavement
always filled the Queen's subjects with awe as they thought upon this
evidence of her magical powers.

"The Wonderful Wizard was never so wonderful as Queen Ozma," the people said
to one another, in whispers; "for he claimed to do many things he could not
do; whereas our new Queen does many things no one would ever expect her to
accomplish."

Jack Pumpkinhead remained with Ozma to the end of his days; and he did not
spoil as soon as he had feared, although he always remained as stupid as
ever. The Woggle-Bug tried to teach him several arts and sciences; but Jack
was so poor a student that any attempt to educate him was soon abandoned.

After Glinda's army had marched back home, and peace was restored to the
Emerald City, the Tin Woodman announced his intention to return to his own
Kingdom of the Winkies.

"It isn't a very big Kingdom," said he to Ozma, "but for that very reason it
is easier to rule; and I have called myself an Emperor because I am an
Absolute Monarch, and no one interferes in any way with my conduct of public
or personal affairs. When I get home I shall have a new coat of nickel
plate; for I have become somewhat marred and scratched lately;



285
and then I shall be glad to have you pay me a visit."

"Thank you," replied Ozma. "Some day I may accept the invitation. But what
is to become of the Scarecrow?"

"I shall return with my friend the Tin Woodman," said the stuffed one,
seriously. "We have decided never to be parted in the future."

"And I have made the Scarecrow my Royal Treasurer," explained the Tin
Woodman." For it has occurred to me that it is a good thing to have a Royal
Treasurer who is made of money. What do you think?"

"I think," said the little Queen, smiling, "that your friend must be the
richest man in all the world."

"I am," returned the Scarecrow. "but not on account of my money. For I
consider brains far superior to money, in every way. You may have noticed
that if one has money without brains, he cannot use it to advantage; but if
one has brains without money, they will enable him to live comfortably to
the end of his days."

"At the same time," declared the Tin Woodman, "you must acknowledge that a
good heart is a thing that brains can not create, and that money can not
buy. Perhaps, after all, it is I who am the richest man in all the world."



286

"You are both rich, my friends," said Ozma, gently; "and your riches are the
only riches worth having--the riches of content!"


﻿

The Magic of Oz



  A Faithful Record of the Remarkable Adventures of Dorothy
      and Trot and the Wizard of Oz, together with the
       Cowardly Lion, the Hungry Tiger and Cap'n Bill,
           in their successful search for a Magical
              and Beautiful Birthday Present for
                     Princess Ozma of Oz



Contents

   --To My Readers--
   1.  Mount Munch
   2.  The Hawk
   3.  Two Bad Ones
   4.  Conspirators
   5.  A Happy Corner of Oz
   6.  Ozma's Birthday Presents
   7.  The Forest of Gugu
   8.  The Li-Mon-Eags Make Trouble
   9.  The Isle of the Magic Flower
  10.  Stuck Fast
  11.  The Beasts of the Forest of Gugu
  12.  Kiki Uses His Magic
  13.  The Loss of the Black Bag
  14.  The Wizard Learns the Magic Word
  15.  The Lonesome Duck
  16.  The Glass Cat Finds the Black Bag
  17.  A Remarkable Journey
  18.  The Magic of the Wizard
  19.  Dorothy and the Bumble Bees
  20.  The Monkeys Have Trouble
  21.  The College of Athletic Arts
  22.  Ozma's Birthday Party
  23.  The Fountain of Oblivion




To My Readers


Curiously enough, in the events which have taken place in the last few
years in our "great outside world," we may find incidents so marvelous
and inspiring that I cannot hope to equal them with stories of The Land
of Oz.

However, "The Magic of Oz" is really more strange and unusual than
anything I have read or heard about on our side of The Great Sandy
Desert which shuts us off from The Land of Oz, even during the past
exciting years, so I hope it will appeal to your love of novelty.

A long and confining illness has prevented my answering all the good
letters sent me--unless stamps were enclosed--but from now on I hope to
be able to give prompt attention to each and every letter with which my
readers favor me.

Assuring you that my love for you has never faltered and hoping the Oz
Books will continue to give you pleasure as long as I am able to write
them, I am

Yours affectionately,

  L. FRANK BAUM,
  "Royal Historian of Oz."
  "OZCOT"
  at HOLLYWOOD
  in CALIFORNIA
  1919




1.  Mount Munch


On the east edge of the Land of Oz, in the Munchkin Country, is a big,
tall hill called Mount Munch.  One one side, the bottom of this hill
just touches the Deadly Sandy Desert that separates the Fairyland of Oz
from all the rest of the world, but on the other side, the hill touches
the beautiful, fertile Country of the Munchkins.

The Munchkin folks, however, merely stand off and look at Mount Munch
and know very little about it; for, about a third of the way up, its
sides become too steep to climb, and if any people live upon the top of
that great towering peak that seems to reach nearly to the skies, the
Munchkins are not aware of the fact.

But people DO live there, just the same.  The top of Mount Munch is
shaped like a saucer, broad and deep, and in the saucer are fields
where grains and vegetables grow, and flocks are fed, and brooks flow
and trees bear all sorts of things.  There are houses scattered here
and there, each having its family of Hyups, as the people call
themselves.  The Hyups seldom go down the mountain, for the same reason
that the Munchkins never climb up: the sides are too steep.

In one of the houses lived a wise old Hyup named Bini Aru, who used to
be a clever Sorcerer.  But Ozma of Oz, who rules everyone in the Land
of Oz, had made a decree that no one should practice magic in her
dominions except Glinda the Good and the Wizard of Oz, and when Glinda
sent this royal command to the Hyups by means of a strong-winged Eagle,
old Bini Aru at once stopped performing magical arts.  He destroyed
many of his magic powders and tools of magic, and afterward honestly
obeyed the law.  He had never seen Ozma, but he knew she was his Ruler
and must be obeyed.

There was only one thing that grieved him.  He had discovered a new and
secret method of transformations that was unknown to any other
Sorcerer.  Glinda the Good did not know it, nor did the little Wizard
of Oz, nor Dr. Pipt nor old Mombi, nor anyone else who dealt in magic
arts.  It was Bini Aru's own secret.  By its means, it was the simplest
thing in the world to transform anyone into beast, bird or fish, or
anything else, and back again, once you know how to pronounce the
mystical word: "Pyrzqxgl."

Bini Aru had used this secret many times, but not to cause evil or
suffering to others.  When he had wandered far from home and was
hungry, he would say: "I want to become a cow--Pyrzqxgl!" In an instant
he would be a cow, and then he would eat grass and satisfy his hunger.
All beasts and birds can talk in the Land of Oz, so when the cow was no
longer hungry, it would say: "I want to be Bini Aru again: Pyrzqxgl!"
and the magic word, properly pronounced, would instantly restore him to
his proper form.

Now, of course, I would not dare to write down this magic word so
plainly if I thought my readers would pronounce it properly and so be
able to transform themselves and others, but it is a fact that no one
in all the world except Bini Aru, had ever (up to the time this story
begins) been able to pronounce "Pyrzqxgl!" the right way, so I think it
is safe to give it to you.  It might be well, however, in reading this
story aloud, to be careful not to pronounce Pyrzqxgl the proper way,
and thus avoid all danger of the secret being able to work mischief.

Bini Aru, having discovered the secret of instant transformation, which
required no tools or powders or other chemicals or herbs and always
worked perfectly, was reluctant to have such a wonderful discovery
entirely unknown or lost to all human knowledge.  He decided not to use
it again, since Ozma had forbidden him to do so, but he reflected that
Ozma was a girl and some time might change her mind and allow her
subjects to practice magic, in which case Bini Aru could again
transform himself and others at will,--unless, of course, he forgot how
to pronounce Pyrzqxgl in the meantime.

After giving the matter careful thought, he decided to write the word,
and how it should be pronounced, in some secret place, so that he could
find it after many years, but where no one else could ever find it.

That was a clever idea, but what bothered the old Sorcerer was to find
a secret place.  He wandered all over the Saucer at the top of Mount
Munch, but found no place in which to write the secret word where
others might not be likely to stumble upon it.  So finally he decided
it must be written somewhere in his own house.

Bini Aru had a wife named Mopsi Aru who was famous for making fine
huckleberry pies, and he had a son named Kiki Aru who was not famous at
all.  He was noted as being cross and disagreeable because he was not
happy, and he was not happy because he wanted to go down the mountain
and visit the big world below and his father would not let him.  No one
paid any attention to Kiki Aru, because he didn't amount to anything,
anyway.

Once a year there was a festival on Mount Munch which all the Hyups
attended.  It was held in the center of the saucer-shaped country, and
the day was given over to feasting and merry-making.  The young folks
danced and sang songs; the women spread the tables with good things to
eat, and the men played on musical instruments and told fairy tales.

Kiki Aru usually went to these festivals with his parents, and then sat
sullenly outside the circle and would not dance or sing or even talk to
the other young people.  So the festival did not make him any happier
than other days, and this time he told Bini Aru and Mopsi Aru that he
would not go.  He would rather stay at home and be unhappy all by
himself, he said, and so they gladly let him stay.

But after he was left alone Kiki decided to enter his father's private
room, where he was forbidden to go, and see if he could find any of the
magic tools Bini Aru used to work with when he practiced sorcery.  As
he went in Kiki stubbed his toe on one of the floor boards.  He
searched everywhere but found no trace of his father's magic.  All had
been destroyed.

Much disappointed, he started to go out again when he stubbed his toe
on the same floor board.  That set him thinking.  Examining the board
more closely, Kiki found it had been pried up and then nailed down
again in such a manner that it was a little higher than the other
boards.  But why had his father taken up the board?  Had he hidden some
of his magic tools underneath the floor?

Kiki got a chisel and pried up the board, but found nothing under it.
He was just about to replace the board when it slipped from his hand
and turned over, and he saw something written on the underside of it.
The light was rather dim, so he took the board to the window and
examined it, and found that the writing described exactly how to
pronounce the magic word Pyrzqxgl, which would transform anyone into
anything instantly, and back again when the word was repeated.

Now, at first, Kiki Aru didn't realize what a wonderful secret he had
discovered; but he thought it might be of use to him and so he took a
piece of paper and made on it an exact copy of the instructions for
pronouncing Pyrzqxgl.  Then he folded the paper and put it in his
pocket, and replaced the board in the floor so that no one would
suspect it had been removed.

After this Kiki went into the garden and sitting beneath a tree made a
careful study of the paper.  He had always wanted to get away from
Mount Munch and visit the big world--especially the Land of Oz--and the
idea now came to him that if he could transform himself into a bird, he
could fly to any place he wished to go and fly back again whenever he
cared to.  It was necessary, however, to learn by heart the way to
pronounce the magic word, because a bird would have no way to carry a
paper with it, and Kiki would be unable to resume his proper shape if
he forgot the word or its pronunciation.

So he studied it a long time, repeating it a hundred times in his mind
until he was sure he would not forget it.  But to make safety doubly
sure he placed the paper in a tin box in a neglected part of the garden
and covered the box with small stones.

By this time it was getting late in the day and Kiki wished to attempt
his first transformation before his parents returned from the festival.
So he stood on the front porch of his home and said:

"I want to become a big, strong bird, like a hawk--Pyrzqxgl!" He
pronounced it the right way, so in a flash he felt that he was
completely changed in form.  He flapped his wings, hopped to the porch
railing and said: "Caw-oo!  Caw-oo!"

Then he laughed and said half aloud: "I suppose that's the funny sound
this sort of a bird makes.  But now let me try my wings and see if I'm
strong enough to fly across the desert."

For he had decided to make his first trip to the country outside the
Land of Oz.  He had stolen this secret of transformation and he knew he
had disobeyed the law of Oz by working magic.  Perhaps Glinda or the
Wizard of Oz would discover him and punish him, so it would be good
policy to keep away from Oz altogether.

Slowly Kiki rose into the air, and resting on his broad wings, floated
in graceful circles above the saucer-shaped mountain-top.  From his
height, he could see, far across the burning sands of the Deadly
Desert, another country that might be pleasant to explore, so he headed
that way, and with strong, steady strokes of his wings, began the long
flight.




2.  The Hawk


Even a hawk has to fly high in order to cross the Deadly Desert, from
which poisonous fumes are constantly rising.  Kiki Aru felt sick and
faint by the time he reached good land again, for he could not quite
escape the effects of the poisons.  But the fresh air soon restored him
and he alighted in a broad table-land which is called Hiland.  Just
beyond it is a valley known as Loland, and these two countries are
ruled by the Gingerbread Man, John Dough, with Chick the Cherub as his
Prime Minister.  The hawk merely stopped here long enough to rest, and
then he flew north and passed over a fine country called Merryland,
which is ruled by a lovely Wax Doll.  Then, following the curve of the
Desert, he turned north and settled on a tree-top in the Kingdom of
Noland.

Kiki was tired by this time, and the sun was now setting, so he decided
to remain here till morning.  From his tree-top he could see a house
near by, which looked very comfortable.  A man was milking a cow in the
yard and a pleasant-faced woman came to the door and called him to
supper.

That made Kiki wonder what sort of food hawks ate.  He felt hungry, but
didn't know what to eat or where to get it.  Also he thought a bed
would be more comfortable than a tree-top for sleeping, so he hopped to
the ground and said: "I want to become Kiki Aru again--Pyrzqxgl!"

Instantly he had resumed his natural shape, and going to the house, he
knocked upon the door and asked for some supper.

"Who are you?" asked the man of the house.

"A stranger from the Land of Oz," replied Kiki Aru.

"Then you are welcome," said the man.

Kiki was given a good supper and a good bed, and he behaved very well,
although he refused to answer all the questions the good people of
Noland asked him.  Having escaped from his home and found a way to see
the world, the young man was no longer unhappy, and so he was no longer
cross and disagreeable.  The people thought him a very respectable
person and gave him breakfast next morning, after which he started on
his way feeling quite contented.

Having walked for an hour or two through the pretty country that is
ruled by King Bud, Kiki Aru decided he could travel faster and see more
as a bird, so he transformed himself into a white dove and visited the
great city of Nole and saw the King's palace and gardens and many other
places of interest.  Then he flew westward into the Kingdom of Ix, and
after a day in Queen Zixi's country went on westward into the Land of
Ev.  Every place he visited he thought was much more pleasant than the
saucer-country of the Hyups, and he decided that when he reached the
finest country of all he would settle there and enjoy his future life
to the utmost.

In the land of Ev he resumed his own shape again, for the cities and
villages were close together and he could easily go on foot from one to
another of them.

Toward evening he came to a good Inn and asked the inn-keeper if he
could have food and lodging.

"You can if you have the money to pay," said the man, "otherwise you
must go elsewhere."

This surprised Kiki, for in the Land of Oz they do not use money at
all, everyone being allowed to take what he wishes without price.  He
had no money, therefore, and so he turned away to seek hospitality
elsewhere.  Looking through an open window into one of the rooms of the
Inn, as he passed along, he saw an old man counting on a table a big
heap of gold pieces, which Kiki thought to be money.  One of these
would buy him supper and a bed, he reflected, so he transformed himself
into a magpie and, flying through the open window, caught up one of the
gold pieces in his beak and flew out again before the old man could
interfere.  Indeed, the old man who was robbed was quite helpless, for
he dared not leave his pile of gold to chase the magpie, and before he
could place the gold in a sack in his pocket the robber bird was out of
sight and to seek it would be folly.

Kiki Aru flew to a group of trees and, dropping the gold piece to the
ground, resumed his proper shape, and then picked up the money and put
it in his pocket.

"You'll be sorry for this!" exclaimed a small voice just over his head.

Kiki looked up and saw that a sparrow, perched upon a branch, was
watching him.

"Sorry for what?" he demanded.

"Oh, I saw the whole thing," asserted the sparrow.  "I saw you look in
the window at the gold, and then make yourself into a magpie and rob
the poor man, and then I saw you fly here and make the bird into your
former shape.  That's magic, and magic is wicked and unlawful; and you
stole money, and that's a still greater crime.  You'll be sorry, some
day."

"I don't care," replied Kiki Aru, scowling.

"Aren't you afraid to be wicked?" asked the sparrow.

"No, I didn't know I was being wicked," said Kiki, "but if I was, I'm
glad of it.  I hate good people.  I've always wanted to be wicked, but
I didn't know how."

"Haw, haw, haw!" laughed someone behind him, in a big voice; "that's
the proper spirit, my lad!  I'm glad I've met you; shake hands."

The sparrow gave a frightened squeak and flew away.




3.  Two Bad Ones


Kiki turned around and saw a queer old man standing near.  He didn't
stand straight, for he was crooked.  He had a fat body and thin legs
and arms.  He had a big, round face with bushy, white whiskers that
came to a point below his waist, and white hair that came to a point on
top of his head.  He wore dull-gray clothes that were tight fitting,
and his pockets were all bunched out as if stuffed full of something.

"I didn't know you were here," said Kiki.

"I didn't come until after you did," said the queer old man.

"Who are you?" asked Kiki.

"My name's Ruggedo.  I used to be the Nome King; but I got kicked out
of my country, and now I'm a wanderer."

"What made them kick you out?" inquired the Hyup boy.

"Well, it's the fashion to kick kings nowadays.  I was a pretty good
King--to myself--but those dreadful Oz people wouldn't let me alone.
So I had to abdicate."

"What does that mean?"

"It means to be kicked out.  But let's talk about something pleasant.
Who are you and where did you come from?"

"I'm called Kiki Aru.  I used to live on Mount Munch in the Land of Oz,
but now I'm a wanderer like yourself."

The Nome King gave him a shrewd look.

"I heard that bird say that you transformed yourself into a magpie and
back again.  Is that true?"

Kiki hesitated, but saw no reason to deny it.  He felt that it would
make him appear more important.

"Well--yes," he said.

"Then you're a wizard?"

"No; I only understand transformations," he admitted.

"Well, that's pretty good magic, anyhow," declared old Ruggedo.  "I
used to have some very fine magic, myself, but my enemies took it all
away from me.  Where are you going now?"

"I'm going into the inn, to get some supper and a bed," said Kiki.

"Have you the money to pay for it?" asked the Nome.

"I have one gold piece."

"Which you stole.  Very good.  And you're glad that you're wicked.
Better yet.  I like you, young man, and I'll go to the inn with you if
you'll promise not to eat eggs for supper."

"Don't you like eggs?" asked Kiki.

"I'm afraid of 'em; they're dangerous!" said Ruggedo, with a shudder.

"All right," agreed Kiki; "I won't ask for eggs."

"Then come along," said the Nome.

When they entered the inn, the landlord scowled at Kiki and said:

"I told you I would not feed you unless you had money."

Kiki showed him the gold piece.

"And how about you?" asked the landlord, turning to Ruggedo.  "Have you
money?"

"I've something better," answered the old Nome, and taking a bag from
one of his pockets he poured from it upon the table a mass of
glittering gems--diamonds, rubies and emeralds.

The landlord was very polite to the strangers after that.  He served
them an excellent supper, and while they ate it, the Hyup boy asked his
companion:

"Where did you get so many jewels?"

"Well, I'll tell you," answered the Nome.  "When those Oz people took
my kingdom away from me--just because it was my kingdom and I wanted to
run it to suit myself--they said I could take as many precious stones
as I could carry.  So I had a lot of pockets made in my clothes and
loaded them all up.  Jewels are fine things to have with you when you
travel; you can trade them for anything."

"Are they better than gold pieces?" asked Kiki.

"The smallest of these jewels is worth a hundred gold pieces such as
you stole from the old man."

"Don't talk so loud," begged Kiki, uneasily.  "Some one else might hear
what you are saying."

After supper they took a walk together, and the former Nome King said:

"Do you know the Shaggy Man, and the Scarecrow, and the Tin Woodman,
and Dorothy, and Ozma and all the other Oz people?"

"No," replied the boy, "I have never been away from Mount Munch until I
flew over the Deadly Desert the other day in the shape of a hawk."

"Then you've never seen the Emerald City of Oz?"

"Never."

"Well," said the Nome, "I knew all the Oz people, and you can guess I
do not love them.  All during my wanderings I have brooded on how I can
be revenged on them.  Now that I've met you I can see a way to conquer
the Land of Oz and be King there myself, which is better than being
King of the Nomes."

"How can you do that?" inquired Kiki Aru, wonderingly.

"Never mind how.  In the first place, I'll make a bargain with you.
Tell me the secret of how to perform transformations and I will give
you a pocketful of jewels, the biggest and finest that I possess."

"No," said Kiki, who realized that to share his power with another
would be dangerous to himself.

"I'll give you TWO pocketsful of jewels," said the Nome.

"No," answered Kiki.

"I'll give you every jewel I possess."

"No, no, no!" said Kiki, who was beginning to be frightened.

"Then," said the Nome, with a wicked look at the boy, "I'll tell the
inn-keeper that you stole that gold piece and he will have you put in
prison."

Kiki laughed at the threat.

"Before he can do that," said he, "I will transform myself into a lion
and tear him to pieces, or into a bear and eat him up, or into a fly
and fly away where he could not find me."

"Can you really do such wonderful transformations?" asked the old Nome,
looking at him curiously.

"Of course," declared Kiki.  "I can transform you into a stick of wood,
in a flash, or into a stone, and leave you here by the roadside."

"The wicked Nome shivered a little when he heard that, but it made him
long more than ever to possess the great secret.  After a while he said:

"I'll tell you what I'll do.  If you will help me to conquer Oz and to
transform the Oz people, who are my enemies, into sticks or stones, by
telling me your secret, I'll agree to make YOU the Ruler of all Oz, and
I will be your Prime Minister and see that your orders are obeyed."

"I'll help do that," said Kiki, "but I won't tell you my secret."

The Nome was so furious at this refusal that he jumped up and down with
rage and spluttered and choked for a long time before he could control
his passion.  But the boy was not at all frightened.  He laughed at the
wicked old Nome, which made him more furious than ever.

"Let's give up the idea," he proposed, when Ruggedo had quieted
somewhat.  "I don't know the Oz people you mention and so they are not
my enemies.  If they've kicked you out of your kingdom, that's your
affair--not mine."

"Wouldn't you like to be king of that splendid fairyland?" asked
Ruggedo.

"Yes, I would," replied Kiki Aru; "but you want to be king yourself,
and we would quarrel over it."

"No," said the Nome, trying to deceive him.  "I don't care to be King
of Oz, come to think it over.  I don't even care to live in that
country.  What I want first is revenge.  If we can conquer Oz, I'll get
enough magic then to conquer my own Kingdom of the Nomes, and I'll go
back and live in my underground caverns, which are more home-like than
the top of the earth.  So here's my proposition: Help me conquer Oz and
get revenge, and help me get the magic away from Glinda and the Wizard,
and I'll let you be King of Oz forever afterward."

"I'll think it over," answered Kiki, and that is all he would say that
evening.

In the night when all in the Inn were asleep but himself, old Ruggedo
the Nome rose softly from his couch and went into the room of Kiki Aru
the Hyup, and searched everywhere for the magic tool that performed his
transformations.  Of course, there was no such tool, and although
Ruggedo searched in all the boy's pockets, he found nothing magical
whatever.  So he went back to his bed and began to doubt that Kiki
could perform transformations.

Next morning he said:

"Which way do you travel to-day?"

"I think I shall visit the Rose Kingdom," answered the boy.

"That is a long journey," declared the Nome.

"I shall transform myself into a bird," said Kiki, "and so fly to the
Rose Kingdom in an hour."

"Then transform me, also, into a bird, and I will go with you,"
suggested Ruggedo.  "But, in that case, let us fly together to the Land
of Oz, and see what it looks like."

Kiki thought this over.  Pleasant as were the countries he had visited,
he heard everywhere that the Land of Oz was more beautiful and
delightful.  The Land of Oz was his own country, too, and if there was
any possibility of his becoming its King, he must know something about
it.

While Kiki the Hyup thought, Ruggedo the Nome was also thinking.  This
boy possessed a marvelous power, and although very simple in some ways,
he was determined not to part with his secret.  However, if Ruggedo
could get him to transport the wily old Nome to Oz, which he could
reach in no other way, he might then induce the boy to follow his
advice and enter into the plot for revenge, which he had already
planned in his wicked heart.

"There are wizards and magicians in Oz," remarked Kiki, after a time.
"They might discover us, in spite of our transformations."

"Not if we are careful," Ruggedo assured him.  "Ozma has a Magic
Picture, in which she can see whatever she wishes to see; but Ozma will
know nothing of our going to Oz, and so she will not command her Magic
Picture to show where we are or what we are doing.  Glinda the Good has
a Great Book called the Book of Records, in which is magically written
everything that people do in the Land of Oz, just the instant they do
it."

"Then," said Kiki, "there is no use our attempting to conquer the
country, for Glinda would read in her book all that we do, and as her
magic is greater than mine, she would soon put a stop to our plans."

"I said 'people,' didn't I?" retorted the Nome.  "The book doesn't make
a record of what birds do, or beasts.  It only tells the doings of
people.  So, if we fly into the country as birds, Glinda won't know
anything about it."

"Two birds couldn't conquer the Land of Oz," asserted the boy,
scornfully.

"No; that's true," admitted Ruggedo, and then he rubbed his forehead
and stroked his long pointed beard and thought some more.

"Ah, now I have the idea!" he declared.  "I suppose you can transform
us into beasts as well as birds?"

"Of course."

"And can you make a bird a beast, and a beast a bird again, without
taking a human form in between?"

"Certainly," said Kiki.  "I can transform myself or others into
anything that can talk.  There's a magic word that must be spoken in
connection with the transformations, and as beasts and birds and
dragons and fishes can talk in Oz, we may become any of these we desire
to.  However, if I transformed myself into a tree, I would always
remain a tree, because then I could not utter the magic word to change
the transformation."

"I see; I see," said Ruggedo, nodding his bushy, white head until the
point of his hair waved back and forth like a pendulum.  "That fits in
with my idea, exactly.  Now, listen, and I'll explain to you my plan.
We'll fly to Oz as birds and settle in one of the thick forests in the
Gillikin Country.  There you will transform us into powerful beasts,
and as Glinda doesn't keep any track of the doings of beasts we can act
without being discovered."

"But how can two beasts raise an army to conquer the powerful people of
Oz?" inquired Kiki.

"That's easy.  But not an army of PEOPLE, mind you.  That would be
quickly discovered.  And while we are in Oz you and I will never resume
our human forms until we've conquered the country and destroyed Glinda,
and Ozma, and the Wizard, and Dorothy, and all the rest, and so have
nothing more to fear from them."

"It is impossible to kill anyone in the Land of Oz," declared Kiki.

"It isn't necessary to kill the Oz people," rejoined Ruggedo.

"I'm afraid I don't understand you," objected the boy.  "What will
happen to the Oz people, and what sort of an army could we get
together, except of people?"

"I'll tell you.  The forests of Oz are full of beasts.  Some of them,
in the far-away places, are savage and cruel, and would gladly follow a
leader as savage as themselves.  They have never troubled the Oz people
much, because they had no leader to urge them on, but we will tell them
to help us conquer Oz and as a reward we will transform all the beasts
into men and women, and let them live in the houses and enjoy all the
good things; and we will transform all the people of Oz into beasts of
various sorts, and send them to live in the forests and the jungles.
That is a splendid idea, you must admit, and it's so easy that we won't
have any trouble at all to carry it through to success."

"Will the beasts consent, do you think?" asked the boy.

"To be sure they will.  We can get every beast in Oz on our
side--except a few who live in Ozma's palace, and they won't count."




4.  Conspirators


Kiki Aru didn't know much about Oz and didn't know much about the
beasts who lived there, but the old Nome's plan seemed to him to be
quite reasonable.  He had a faint suspicion that Ruggedo meant to get
the best of him in some way, and he resolved to keep a close watch on
his fellow-conspirator.  As long as he kept to himself the secret word
of the transformations, Ruggedo would not dare to harm him, and he
promised himself that as soon as they had conquered Oz, he would
transform the old Nome into a marble statue and keep him in that form
forever.

Ruggedo, on his part, decided that he could, by careful watching and
listening, surprise the boy's secret, and when he had learned the magic
word he would transform Kiki Aru into a bundle of faggots and burn him
up and so be rid of him.

This is always the way with wicked people.  They cannot be trusted even
by one another.  Ruggedo thought he was fooling Kiki, and Kiki thought
he was fooling Ruggedo; so both were pleased.

"It's a long way across the Desert," remarked the boy, "and the sands
are hot and send up poisonous vapors.  Let us wait until evening and
then fly across in the night when it will be cooler."

The former Nome King agreed to this, and the two spent the rest of that
day in talking over their plans.  When evening came they paid the
inn-keeper and walked out to a little grove of trees that stood near by.

"Remain here for a few minutes and I'll soon be back," said Kiki, and
walking swiftly away, he left the Nome standing in the grove.  Ruggedo
wondered where he had gone, but stood quietly in his place until, all
of a sudden, his form changed to that of a great eagle, and he uttered
a piercing cry of astonishment and flapped his wings in a sort of
panic.  At once his eagle cry was answered from beyond the grove, and
another eagle, even larger and more powerful than the transformed
Ruggedo, came sailing through the trees and alighted beside him.

"Now we are ready for the start," said the voice of Kiki, coming from
the eagle.

Ruggedo realized that this time he had been outwitted.  He had thought
Kiki would utter the magic word in his presence, and so he would learn
what it was, but the boy had been too shrewd for that.

As the two eagles mounted high into the air and began their flight
across the great Desert that separates the Land of Oz from all the rest
of the world, the Nome said:

"When I was King of the Nomes I had a magic way of working
transformations that I thought was good, but it could not compare with
your secret word.  I had to have certain tools and make passes and say
a lot of mystic words before I could transform anybody."

"What became of your magic tools?" inquired Kiki.

"The Oz people took them all away from me--that horrid girl, Dorothy,
and that terrible fairy, Ozma, the Ruler of Oz--at the time they took
away my underground kingdom and kicked me upstairs into the cold,
heartless world."

"Why did you let them do that?" asked the boy.

"Well," said Ruggedo, "I couldn't help it.  They rolled eggs at
me--EGGS--dreadful eggs!--and if an egg even touches a Nome, he is
ruined for life."

"Is any kind of an egg dangerous to a Nome?"

"Any kind and every kind.  An egg is the only thing I'm afraid of."




5.  A Happy Corner of Oz


There is no other country so beautiful as the Land of Oz.  There are no
other people so happy and contented and prosperous as the Oz people.
They have all they desire; they love and admire their beautiful girl
Ruler, Ozma of Oz, and they mix work and play so justly that both are
delightful and satisfying and no one has any reason to complain.  Once
in a while something happens in Oz to disturb the people's happiness
for a brief time, for so rich and attractive a fairyland is sure to
make a few selfish and greedy outsiders envious, and therefore certain
evil-doers have treacherously plotted to conquer Oz and enslave its
people and destroy its girl Ruler, and so gain the wealth of Oz for
themselves.  But up to the time when the cruel and crafty Nome,
Ruggedo, conspired with Kiki Aru, the Hyup, all such attempts had
failed.  The Oz people suspected no danger.  Life in the world's nicest
fairyland was one round of joyous, happy days.

In the center of the Emerald City of Oz, the capital city of Ozma's
dominions, is a vast and beautiful garden, surrounded by a wall inlaid
with shining emeralds, and in the center of this garden stands Ozma's
Royal Palace, the most splendid building ever constructed.  From a
hundred towers and domes floated the banners of Oz, which included the
Ozmies, the Munchkins, the Gillikins, the Winkies and the Quadlings.
The banner of the Munchkins is blue, that of the Winkies yellow; the
Gillikin banner is purple, and the Quadling's banner is red.  The
colors of the Emerald City are of course green.  Ozma's own banner has
a green center, and is divided into four quarters.  These quarters are
colored blue, purple, yellow and red, indicating that she rules over
all the countries of the Land of Oz.

This fairyland is so big, however, that all of it is not yet known to
its girl Ruler, and it is said that in some far parts of the country,
in forests and mountain fastnesses, in hidden valleys and thick
jungles, are people and beasts that know as little about Ozma as she
knows of them.  Still, these unknown subjects are not nearly so
numerous as the known inhabitants of Oz, who occupy all the countries
near to the Emerald City.  Indeed, I'm sure it will not be long until
all parts of the fairyland of Oz are explored and their peoples made
acquainted with their Ruler, for in Ozma's palace are several of her
friends who are so curious that they are constantly discovering new and
extraordinary places and inhabitants.

One of the most frequent discoverers of these hidden places in Oz is a
little Kansas girl named Dorothy, who is Ozma's dearest friend and
lives in luxurious rooms in the Royal Palace.  Dorothy is, indeed, a
Princess of Oz, but she does not like to be called a princess, and
because she is simple and sweet and does not pretend to be anything but
an ordinary little girl, she is called just "Dorothy" by everybody and
is the most popular person, next to Ozma, in all the Land of Oz.

One morning Dorothy crossed the hall of the palace and knocked on the
door of another girl named Trot, also a guest and friend of Ozma.  When
told to enter, Dorothy found that Trot had company, an old sailor-man
with one wooden leg and one meat leg, who was sitting by the open
window puffing smoke from a corn-cob pipe.  This sailor-man was named
Cap'n Bill, and he had accompanied Trot to the Land of Oz and was her
oldest and most faithful comrade and friend.  Dorothy liked Cap'n Bill,
too, and after she had greeted him, she said to Trot:

"You know, Ozma's birthday is next month, and I've been wondering what
I can give here as a birthday present.  She's so good to us all that we
certainly ought to remember her birthday."

"That's true," agreed Trot.  "I've been wondering, too, what I could
give Ozma.  It's pretty hard to decide, 'cause she's got already all
she wants, and as she's a fairy and knows a lot about magic, she could
satisfy any wish."

"I know," returned Dorothy, "but that isn't the point.  It isn't that
Ozma NEEDS anything, but that it will please her to know we've
remembered her birthday.  But what shall we give her?"

Trot shook her head in despair.

"I've tried to think and I can't," she declared.

"It's the same way with me," said Dorothy.

"I know one thing that 'ud please her," remarked Cap'n Bill, turning
his round face with its fringe of whiskers toward the two girls and
staring at them with his big, light-blue eyes wide open.

"What is it, Cap'n Bill?"

"It's an Enchanted Flower," said he.  "It's a pretty plant that stands
in a golden flower-pot an' grows all sorts o' flowers, one after
another.  One minute a fine rose buds an' blooms, an' then a tulip, an'
next a chrys--chrys--"

"--anthemum," said Dorothy, helping him.

"That's it; and next a dahlia, an' then a daffydil, an' on all through
the range o' posies.  Jus' as soon as one fades away, another comes, of
a different sort, an' the perfume from 'em is mighty snifty, an' they
keeps bloomin' night and day, year in an' year out."

"That's wonderful!" exclaimed Dorothy.  "I think Ozma would like it."

"But where is the Magic Flower, and how can we get it?" asked Trot.

"Dun'no, zac'ly," slowly replied Cap'n Bill.  "The Glass Cat tol' me
about it only yesterday, an' said it was in some lonely place up at the
nor'east o' here.  The Glass Cat goes travelin' all around Oz, you
know, an' the little critter sees a lot o' things no one else does."

"That's true," said Dorothy, thoughtfully.  "Northeast of here must be
in the Munchkin Country, and perhaps a good way off, so let's ask the
Glass Cat to tell us how to get to the Magic Flower."

So the two girls, with Cap'n Bill stumping along on his wooden leg
after them, went out into the garden, and after some time spent in
searching, they found the Glass Cat curled up in the sunshine beside a
bush, fast sleep.

The Glass Cat is one of the most curious creatures in all Oz.  It was
made by a famous magician named Dr. Pipt before Ozma had forbidden her
subjects to work magic.  Dr. Pipt had made the Glass Cat to catch mice,
but the Cat refused to catch mice and was considered more curious than
useful.

This astonished cat was made all of glass and was so clear and
transparent that you could see through it as easily as through a
window.  In the top of its head, however, was a mass of delicate pink
balls which looked like jewels but were intended for brains.  It had a
heart made of blood-red ruby.  The eyes were two large emeralds.  But,
aside from these colors, all the rest of the animal was of clear glass,
and it had a spun-glass tail that was really beautiful.

"Here, wake up,"  said Cap'n Bill.  "We want to talk to you."

Slowly the Glass Cat got upon its feed, yawned and then looked at the
three who stood before it.

"How dare you disturb me?" it asked in a peevish voice.  "You ought to
be ashamed of yourselves."

"Never mind that," returned the Sailor.  "Do you remember tellin' me
yesterday 'bout a Magic Flower in a Gold Pot?"

"Do you think I'm a fool?  Look at my brains--you can see 'em work.  Of
course I remember!" said the cat.

"Well, where can we find it?"

"You can't.  It's none of your business, anyhow.  Go away and let me
sleep," advised the Glass Cat.

"Now, see here," said Dorothy; "we want the Magic Flower to give to
Ozma on her birthday.  You'd be glad to please Ozma, wouldn't you?"

"I'm not sure," replied the creature.  "Why should I want to please
anybody?"

"You've got a heart, 'cause I can see it inside of you," said Trot.

"Yes; it's a pretty heart, and I'm fond of it," said the cat, twisting
around to view its own body.  "But it's made from a ruby, and it's hard
as nails."

"Aren't you good for ANYthing?" asked Trot.

"Yes, I'm pretty to look at, and that's more than can be said of you,"
retorted the creature.

Trot laughed at this, and Dorothy, who understood the Glass Cat pretty
well, said soothingly:

"You are indeed beautiful, and if you can tell Cap'n Bill where to find
the Magic Flower, all the people in Oz will praise your cleverness.
The Flower will belong to Ozma, but everyone will know the Glass Cat
discovered it."

This was the kind of praise the crystal creature liked.

"Well," it said, while the pink brains rolled around, "I found the
Magic Flower way up in the north of the Munchkin Country where few
people live or ever go.  There's a river there that flows through a
forest, and in the middle of the forest there is a small island on
which stands the gold pot in which grows the Magic Flower."

"How did you get to the island?" asked Dorothy.  "Glass cats can't
swim."

"No, but I'm not afraid of water," was the reply.  "I just walked
across the river on the bottom."

"Under the water?" exclaimed Trot.

The cat gave her a scornful look.

"How could I walk OVER the water on the BOTTOM of the river?  If you
were transparent, anyone could see YOUR brains were not working.  But
I'm sure you could never find the place alone.  It has always been
hidden from the Oz people."

"But you, with your fine pink brains, could find it again, I s'pose,"
remarked Dorothy.

"Yes; and if you want that Magic Flower for Ozma, I'll go with you and
show you the way."

"That's lovely of you!" declared Dorothy.  "Trot and Cap'n Bill will go
with you, for this is to be their birthday present to Ozma.  While
you're gone I'll have to find something else to give her."

"All right.  Come on, then, Cap'n," said the Glass Cat, starting to
move away.

"Wait a minute," begged Trot.  "How long will we be gone?"

"Oh, about a week."

"Then I'll put some things in a basket to take with us," said the girl,
and ran into the palace to make her preparations for the journey.




6.  Ozma's Birthday Presents


When Cap'n Bill and Trot and the Glass Cat had started for the hidden
island in the far-off river to get the Magic Flower, Dorothy wondered
again what she could give Ozma on her birthday.  She met the Patchwork
Girl and said:

"What are you going to give Ozma for a birthday present?"

"I've written a song for her," answered the strange Patchwork Girl, who
went by the name of "Scraps," and who, through stuffed with cotton, had
a fair assortment of mixed brains.  "It's a splendid song and the
chorus runs this way:

  I am crazy;
  You're a daisy,
    Ozma dear;
  I'm demented;
  You're contented,
    Ozma dear;
  I am patched and gay and glary;
  You're a sweet and lovely fairy;
  May your birthdays all be happy,
    Ozma dear!"


"How do you like it, Dorothy?" inquired the Patchwork Girl.

"Is it good poetry, Scraps?" asked Dorothy, doubtfully.

"It's as good as any ordinary song," was the reply.  "I have given it a
dandy title, too.  I shall call the song: 'When Ozma Has a Birthday,
Everybody's Sure to Be Gay, for She Cannot Help the Fact That She Was
Born.'"

"That's a pretty long title, Scraps," said Dorothy.

"That makes it stylish," replied the Patchwork Girl, turning a
somersault and alighting on one stuffed foot. "Now-a-days the titles
are sometimes longer than the songs."

Dorothy left her and walked slowly toward the place, where she met the
Tin Woodman just going up the front steps.

"What are you going to give Ozma on her birthday?" she asked.

"It's a secret, but I'll tell you," replied the Tin Woodman, who was
Emperor of the Winkies.  "I am having my people make Ozma a lovely
girdle set with beautiful tin nuggets.  Each tin nugget will be
surrounded by a circle of emeralds, just to set it off to good
advantage.  The clasp of the girdle will be pure tin!  Won't that be
fine?"

"I'm sure she'll like it," said Dorothy.  "Do you know what I can give
her?"

"I haven't the slightest idea, Dorothy.  It took me three months to
think of my own present for Ozma."

The girl walked thoughtfully around to the back of the palace, and
presently came upon the famous Scarecrow of Oz, who has having two of
the palace servants stuff his legs with fresh straw.

"What are you going to give Ozma on her birthday?" asked Dorothy.

"I want to surprise her," answered the Scarecrow.

"I won't tell," promised Dorothy.

"Well, I'm having some straw slippers made for her--all straw, mind
you, and braided very artistically.  Ozma has always admired my straw
filling, so I'm sure she'll be pleased with these lovely straw
slippers."

"Ozma will be pleased with anything her loving friends give her," said
the girl.  "What I'M worried about, Scarecrow, is what to give Ozma
that she hasn't got already."

"That's what worried me, until I thought of the slippers," said the
Scarecrow.  "You'll have to THINK, Dorothy; that's the only way to get
a good idea.  If I hadn't such wonderful brains, I'd never have thought
of those straw foot-decorations."

Dorothy left him and went to her room, where she sat down and tried to
think hard.  A Pink Kitten was curled up on the window-sill and Dorothy
asked her:

"What can I give Ozma for her birthday present?"

"Oh, give her some milk," replied the Pink Kitten; "that's the nicest
thing I know of."

A fuzzy little black dog had squatted down at Dorothy's feet and now
looked up at her with intelligent eyes.

"Tell me, Toto," said the girl; "what would Ozma like best for a
birthday present?"

The little black dog wagged his tail.

"Your love," said he.  "Ozma wants to be loved more than anything else."

"But I already love her, Toto!"

"Then tell her you love her twice as much as you ever did before."

"That wouldn't be true," objected Dorothy, "for I've always loved her
as much as I could, and, really, Toto, I want to give Ozma some
PRESENT, 'cause everyone else will give her a present."

"Let me see," said Toto.  "How would it be to give her that useless
Pink Kitten?"

"No, Toto; that wouldn't do."

"Then six kisses."

"No; that's no present."

"Well, I guess you'll have to figure it out for yourself, Dorothy,"
said the little dog.  "To MY notion you're more particular than Ozma
will be."

Dorothy decided that if anyone could help her it would be Glinda the
Good, the wonderful Sorceress of Oz who was Ozma's faithful subject and
friend.  But Glinda's castle was in the Quadling Country and quite a
journey from the Emerald City.

So the little girl went to Ozma and asked permission to use the Wooden
Sawhorse and the royal Red Wagon to pay a visit to Glinda, and the girl
Ruler kissed Princess Dorothy and graciously granted permission.

The Wooden Sawhorse was one of the most remarkable creatures in Oz.
Its body was a small log and its legs were limbs of trees stuck in the
body.  Its eyes were knots, its mouth was sawed in the end of the log
and its ears were two chips.  A small branch had been left at the rear
end of the log to serve as a tail.

Ozma herself, during one of her early adventures, had brought this
wooden horse to life, and so she was much attached to the queer animal
and had shod the bottoms of its wooden legs with plates of gold so they
would not wear out.  The Sawhorse was a swift and willing traveler, and
though it could talk if need arose, it seldom said anything unless
spoken to.  When the Sawhorse was harnessed to the Red Wagon there were
no reins to guide him because all that was needed was to tell him where
to go.

Dorothy now told him to go to Glinda's Castle and the Sawhorse carried
her there with marvelous speed.

"Glinda," said Dorothy, when she had been greeted by the Sorceress, who
was tall and stately, with handsome and dignified features and dressed
in a splendid and becoming gown, "what are you going to give Ozma for a
birthday present?"

The Sorceress smiled and answered:

"Come into my patio and I will show you."

So they entered a place that was surrounded by the wings of the great
castle but had no roof, and was filled with flowers and fountains and
exquisite statuary and many settees and chairs of polished marble or
filigree gold.  Here there were gathered fifty beautiful young girls,
Glinda's handmaids, who had been selected from all parts of the Land of
Oz on account of their wit and beauty and sweet dispositions.  It was a
great honor to be made one of Glinda's handmaidens.

When Dorothy followed the Sorceress into this delightful patio all the
fifty girls were busily weaving, and their shuttles were filled with a
sparkling green spun glass such as the little girl had never seen
before.

"What is it, Glinda?" she asked.

"One of my recent discoveries," explained the Sorceress.  "I have found
a way to make threads from emeralds, by softening the stones and then
spinning them into long, silken strands.  With these emerald threads we
are weaving cloth to make Ozma a splendid court gown for her birthday.
You will notice that the threads have all the beautiful glitter and
luster of the emeralds from which they are made, and so Ozma's new
dress will be the most magnificent the world has ever seen, and quite
fitting for our lovely Ruler of the Fairyland of Oz."

Dorothy's eyes were fairly dazed by the brilliance of the emerald
cloth, some of which the girls had already woven.

"I've never seen ANYthing so beautiful!" she said, with a sigh.  "But
tell me, Glinda, what can I give our lovely Ozma on her birthday?"

The good Sorceress considered this question for a long time before she
replied.  Finally she said:

"Of course there will be a grand feast at the Royal Palace on Ozma's
birthday, and all our friends will be present.  So I suggest that you
make a fine big birthday cake of Ozma, and surround it with candles."

"Oh, just a CAKE!" exclaimed Dorothy, in disappointment.

"Nothing is nicer for a birthday," said the Sorceress.

"How many candles should there be on the cake?" asked the girl.

"Just a row of them," replied Glinda, "for no one knows how old Ozma
is, although she appears to us to be just a young girl--as fresh and
fair as if she had lived but a few years."

"A cake doesn't seem like much of a present," Dorothy asserted.

"Make it a surprise cake," suggested the Sorceress.  "Don't you
remember the four and twenty blackbirds that were baked in a pie?
Well, you need not use live blackbirds in your cake, but you could have
some surprise of a different sort."

"Like what?" questioned Dorothy, eagerly.

"If I told you, it wouldn't be YOUR present to Ozma, but MINE,"
answered the Sorceress, with a smile.  "Think it over, my dear, and I
am sure you can originate a surprise that will add greatly to the joy
and merriment of Ozma's birthday banquet."

Dorothy thanked her friend and entered the Red Wagon and told the
Sawhorse to take her back home to the palace in the Emerald City.

On the way she thought the matter over seriously of making a surprise
birthday cake and finally decided what to do.

As soon as she reached home, she went to the Wizard of Oz, who had a
room fitted up in one of the high towers of the palace, where he
studied magic so as to be able to perform such wizardry as Ozma
commanded him to do for the welfare of her subjects.

The Wizard and Dorothy were firm friends and had enjoyed many strange
adventures together.  He was a little man with a bald head and sharp
eyes and a round, jolly face, and because he was neither haughty nor
proud he had become a great favorite with the Oz people.

"Wizard," said Dorothy, "I want you to help me fix up a present for
Ozma's birthday."

"I'll be glad to do anything for you and for Ozma," he answered.
"What's on your mind, Dorothy?"

"I'm going to make a great cake, with frosting and candles, and all
that, you know."

"Very good," said the Wizard.

"In the center of this cake I'm going to leave a hollow place, with
just a roof of the frosting over it," continued the girl.

"Very good," repeated the Wizard, nodding his bald head.

"In that hollow place," said Dorothy, "I want to hide a lot of monkeys
about three inches high, and after the cake is placed on the banquet
table, I want the monkeys to break through the frosting and dance
around on the table-cloth.  Then, I want each monkey to cut out a piece
of cake and hand it to a guest."

"Mercy me!" cried the little Wizard, as he chuckled with laughter.  "Is
that ALL you want, Dorothy?"

"Almost," said she.  "Can you think of anything more the little monkeys
can do, Wizard?"

"Not just now," he replied.  "But where will you get such tiny monkeys?"

"That's where you're to help me," said Dorothy.  "In some of those wild
forests in the Gillikin Country are lots of monkeys."

"Big ones," said the Wizard.

"Well, you and I will go there, and we'll get some of the big monkeys,
and you will make them small--just three inches high--by means of your
magic, and we'll put the little monkeys all in a basket and bring them
home with us.  Then you'll train them to dance--up here in your room,
where no one can see them--and on Ozma's birthday we'll put 'em into
the cake and they'll know by that time just what to do."

The Wizard looked at Dorothy with admiring approval, and chuckled again.

"That's really clever, my dear," he said, "and I see no reason why we
can't do it, just the way you say, if only we can get the wild monkeys
to agree to it."

"Do you think they'll object?" asked the girl.

"Yes; but perhaps we can argue them into it.  Anyhow it's worth trying,
and I'll help you if you'll agree to let this Surprise Cake be a
present to Ozma from you and me together.  I've been wondering what I
could give Ozma, and as I've got to train the monkeys as well as make
them small, I think you ought to make me your partner."

"Of course," said Dorothy; "I'll be glad to do so."

"Then it's a bargain," declared the Wizard.  "We must go to seek those
monkeys at once, however, for it will take time to train them and we'll
have to travel a good way to the Gillikin forests where they live."

"I'm ready to go any time," agreed Dorothy.  "Shall we ask Ozma to let
us take the Sawhorse?"

The Wizard did not answer that at once.  He took time to think of the
suggestion.

"No," he answered at length, "the Red Wagon couldn't get through the
thick forests and there's some danger to us in going into the wild
places to search for monkeys.  So I propose we take the Cowardly Lion
and the Hungry Tiger.  We can ride on their backs as well as in the Red
Wagon, and if there is danger to us from other beasts, these two
friendly champions will protect us from all harm."

"That's a splendid idea!" exclaimed Dorothy.  "Let's go now and ask the
Hungry Tiger and the Cowardly Lion if they will help us.  Shall we ask
Ozma if we can go?"

"I think not," said the Wizard, getting his hat and his black bag of
magic tools.  "This is to be a surprise for her birthday, and so she
mustn't know where we're going.  We'll just leave word, in case Ozma
inquires for us, that we'll be back in a few days."




7.  The Forest of Gugu


In the central western part of the Gillikin Country is a great tangle
of trees called Gugu Forest.  It is the biggest forest in all Oz and
stretches miles and miles in every direction--north, south, east and
west.  Adjoining it on the east side is a range of rugged mountains
covered with underbrush and small twisted trees.  You can find this
place by looking at the Map of the Land of Oz.

Gugu Forest is the home of most of the wild beasts that inhabit Oz.
These are seldom disturbed in their leafy haunts because there is no
reason why Oz people should go there, except on rare occasions, and
most parts of the forest have never been seen by any eyes but the eyes
of the beasts who make their home there.  The biggest beasts inhabit
the great forest, while the smaller ones live mostly in the mountain
underbrush at the east.

Now, you must know that there are laws in the forests, as well as in
every other place, and these laws are made by the beasts themselves,
and are necessary to keep them from fighting and tearing one another to
pieces.  In Gugu Forest there is a King--an enormous yellow leopard
called "Gugu"--after whom the forest is named.  And this King has three
other beasts to advise him in keeping the laws and maintaining
order--Bru the Bear, Loo the Unicorn and Rango the Gray Ape--who are
known as the King's Counselors.  All these are fierce and ferocious
beasts, and hold their high offices because they are more intelligent
and more feared then their fellows.

Since Oz became a fairyland, no man, woman or child ever dies in that
land nor is anyone ever sick.  Likewise the beasts of the forests never
die, so that long years add to their cunning and wisdom, as well as to
their size and strength.  It is possible for beasts--or even people--to
be destroyed, but the task is so difficult that it is seldom attempted.
Because it is free from sickness and death is one reason why Oz is a
fairyland, but it is doubtful whether those who come to Oz from the
outside world, as Dorothy and Button-Bright and Trot and Cap'n Bill and
the Wizard did, will live forever or cannot be injured.  Even Ozma is
not sure about this, and so the guests of Ozma from other lands are
always carefully protected from any danger, so as to be on the safe
side.

In spite of the laws of the forests there are often fights among the
beasts; some of them have lost an eye or an ear or even had a leg torn
off.  The King and the King's Counselors always punish those who start
a fight, but so fierce is the nature of some beasts that they will at
times fight in spite of laws and punishment.

Over this vast, wild Forest of Gugu flew two eagles, one morning, and
near the center of the jungle the eagles alighted on a branch of a tall
tree.

"Here is the place for us to begin our work," said one, who was
Ruggedo, the Nome.

"Do many beasts live here?" asked Kiki Aru, the other eagle.

"The forest is full of them," said the Nome.  "There are enough beasts
right here to enable us to conquer the people of Oz, if we can get them
to consent to join us.  To do that, we must go among them and tell them
our plans, so we must now decide on what shapes we had better assume
while in the forest."

"I suppose we must take the shapes of beasts?" said Kiki.

"Of course.  But that requires some thought.  All kinds of beasts live
here, and a yellow leopard is King.  If we become leopards, the King
will be jealous of us.  If we take the forms of some of the other
beasts, we shall not command proper respect."

"I wonder if the beasts will attack us?" asked Kiki.

"I'm a Nome, and immortal, so nothing can hurt me," replied Ruggedo.

"I was born in the Land of Oz, so nothing can hurt me," said Kiki.

"But, in order to carry out our plans, we must win the favor of all the
animals of the forest."

"Then what shall we do?" asked Kiki.

"Let us mix the shapes of several beasts, so we will not look like any
one of them," proposed the wily old Nome.  "Let us have the heads of
lions, the bodies of monkeys, the wings of eagles and the tails of wild
asses, with knobs of gold on the end of them instead of bunches of
hair."

"Won't that make a queer combination?" inquired Kiki.

"The queerer the better," declared Ruggedo.

"All right," said Kiki.  "You stay here, and I'll fly away to another
tree and transform us both, and then we'll climb down our trees and
meet in the forest."

"No," said the Nome, "we mustn't separate.  You must transform us while
we are together."

"I won't do that," asserted Kiki, firmly.  "You're trying to get my
secret, and I won't let you."

The eyes of the other eagle flashed angrily, but Ruggedo did not dare
insist.  If he offended this boy, he might have to remain an eagle
always and he wouldn't like that.  Some day he hoped to be able to
learn the secret word of the magical transformations, but just now he
must let Kiki have his own way.

"All right," he said gruffly; "do as you please."

So Kiki flew to a tree that was far enough distant so that Ruggedo
could not overhear him and said: "I want Ruggedo, the Nome, and myself
to have the heads of lions, the bodies of monkeys, the wings of eagles
and the tails of wild asses, with knobs of gold on the ends of them
instead of bunches of hair--Pyrzqxgl!"

He pronounced the magic word in the proper manner and at once his form
changed to the one he had described.  He spread his eagle's wings and
finding they were strong enough to support his monkey body and lion
head he flew swiftly to the tree where he had left Ruggedo.  The Nome
was also transformed and was climbing down the tree because the
branches all around him were so thickly entwined that there was no room
between them to fly.

Kiki quickly joined his comrade and it did not take them long to reach
the ground.




8.  The Li-Mon-Eags Make Trouble


There had been trouble in the Forest of Gugu that morning.  Chipo the
Wild Boar had bitten the tail off Arx the Giraffe while the latter had
his head among the leaves of a tree, eating his breakfast.  Arx kicked
with his heels and struck Tirrip, the great Kangaroo, who had a new
baby in her pouch.  Tirrip knew it was the Wild Boar's fault, so she
knocked him over with one powerful blow and then ran away to escape
Chipo's sharp tusks.  In the chase that followed a giant porcupine
stuck fifty sharp quills into the Boar and a chimpanzee in a tree threw
a cocoanut at the porcupine that jammed its head into its body.

All this was against the Laws of the Forest, and when the excitement
was over, Gugu the Leopard King called his royal Counselors together to
decide how best to punish the offenders.

The four lords of the forest were holding solemn council in a small
clearing when they saw two strange beasts approaching them--beasts the
like of which they had never seen before.

Not one of the four, however, relaxed his dignity or showed by a
movement that he was startled.  The great Leopard crouched at full
length upon a fallen tree-trunk.  Bru the Bear sat on his haunches
before the King; Rango the Gray Ape stood with his muscular arms
folded, and Loo the Unicorn reclined, much as a horse does, between his
fellow-councillors.  With one consent they remained silent, eyeing with
steadfast looks the intruders, who were making their way into their
forest domain.

"Well met, Brothers!" said one of the strange beasts, coming to a halt
beside the group, while his comrade with hesitation lagged behind.

"We are not brothers," returned the Gray Ape, sternly.  "Who are you,
and how came you in the forest of Gugu?"

"We are two Li-Mon-Eags," said Ruggedo, inventing the name.  "Our home
is in Sky Island, and we have come to earth to warn the forest beasts
that the people of Oz are about to make war upon them and enslave them,
so that they will become beasts of burden forever after and obey only
the will of their two-legged masters."

A low roar of anger arose from the Council of Beasts.

"WHO'S going to do that?" asked Loo the Unicorn, in a high, squeaky
voice, at the same time rising to his feet.

"The people of Oz," said Ruggedo.

"But what will WE be doing?" inquired the Unicorn.

"That's what I've come to talk to you about."

"You needn't talk!  We'll fight the Oz people!" screamed the Unicorn.
"We'll smash 'em; we'll trample 'em; we'll gore 'em; we'll--"

"Silence!" growled Gugu the King, and Loo obeyed, although still
trembling with wrath.  The cold, steady gaze of the Leopard wandered
over the two strange beasts.  "The people of Oz," said he, "have not
been our friends; they have not been our enemies.  They have let us
alone, and we have let them alone.  There is no reason for war between
us.  They have no slaves.  They could not use us as slaves if they
should conquer us.  I think you are telling us lies, you strange
Li-Mon-Eag--you mixed-up beast who are neither one thing nor another."

"Oh, on my word, it's the truth!" protested the Nome in the beast's
shape.  "I wouldn't lie for the world; I--"

"Silence!" again growled Gugu the King; and somehow, even Ruggedo was
abashed and obeyed the edict.

"What do you say, Bru?" asked the King, turning to the great Bear, who
had until now said nothing.

"How does the Mixed Beast know that what he says is true?" asked the
Bear.

"Why, I can fly, you know, having the wings of an Eagle," explained the
Nome.  "I and my comrade yonder," turning to Kiki, "flew to a grove in
Oz, and there we heard the people telling how they will make many ropes
to snare you beasts, and then they will surround this forest, and all
other forests, and make you prisoners.  So we came here to warn you,
for being beasts ourselves, although we live in the sky, we are your
friends."

The Leopard's lip curled and showed his enormous teeth, sharp as
needles.  He turned to the Gray Ape.

"What do YOU think, Rango?" he asked.

"Send these mixed beasts away, Your Majesty," replied the Gray Ape.
"They are mischief-makers."

"Don't do that--don't do that!" cried the Unicorn, nervously.  "The
stranger said he would tell us what to do.  Let him tell us, then.  Are
we fools, not to heed a warning?"

Gugu the King turned to Ruggedo.

"Speak, Stranger," he commanded.

"Well," said the Nome, "it's this way: The Land of Oz is a fine
country.  The people of Oz have many good things--houses with soft
beds, all sorts of nice-tasting food, pretty clothes, lovely jewels,
and many other things that beasts know nothing of.  Here in the dark
forests the poor beasts have hard work to get enough to eat and to find
a bed to rest in.  But the beasts are better than the people, and why
should they not have all the good things the people have?  So I propose
that before the Oz people have the time to make all those ropes to
snare you with, that all we beasts get together and march against the
Oz people and capture them.  Then the beasts will become the masters
and the people their slaves."

"What good would that do us?" asked Bru the Bear.

"It would save you from slavery, for one thing, and you could enjoy all
the fine things of Oz people have."

"Beasts wouldn't know what to do with the things people use," said the
Gray Ape.

"But this is only part of my plan," insisted the Nome.  "Listen to the
rest of it.  We two Li-Mon-Eags are powerful magicians.  When you have
conquered the Oz people we will transform them all into beasts, and
send them to the forests to live, and we will transform all the beasts
into people, so they can enjoy all the wonderful delights of the
Emerald City."

For a moment no beast spoke.  Then the King said: "Prove it."

"Prove what?" asked Ruggedo.

"Prove that you can transform us.  If you are a magician transform the
Unicorn into a man.  Then we will believe you.  If you fail, we will
destroy you."

"All right," said the Nome.  "But I'm tired, so I'll let my comrade
make the transformation."

Kiki Aru had stood back from the circle, but he had heard all that was
said.  He now realized that he must make good Ruggedo's boast, so he
retreated to the edge of the clearing and whispered the magic word.

Instantly the Unicorn became a fat, chubby little man, dressed in the
purple Gillikin costume, and it was hard to tell which was the more
astonished, the King, the Bear, the Ape or the former Unicorn.

"It's true!" shorted the man-beast.  "Good gracious, look what I am!
It's wonderful!"

The King of Beasts now addressed Ruggedo in a more friendly tone.

"We must believe your story, since you have given us proof of your
power," said he.  "But why, if you are so great a magician, cannot you
conquer the Oz people without our help, and so save us the trouble?"

"Alas!" replied the crafty old Nome, "no magician is able to do
everything.  The transformations are easy to us because we are
Li-Mon-Eags, but we cannot fight, or conquer even such weak creatures
as the Oz people.  But we will stay with you and advise and help you,
and we will transform all the Oz people into beasts, when the time
comes, and all the beasts into people."

Gugu the King turned to his Counselors.

"How shall we answer this friendly stranger?" he asked.

Loo the former Unicorn was dancing around and cutting capers like a
clown.

"On my word, your Majesty," he said, "this being a man is more fun than
being a Unicorn."

"You look like a fool," said the Gray Ape.

"Well, I FEEL fine!" declared the man-beast.

"I think I prefer to be a Bear," said Big Bru.  "I was born a Bear, and
I know a Bear's ways.  So I am satisfied to live as a Bear lives."

"That," said the old Nome, "is because you know nothing better.  When
we have conquered the Oz people, and you become a man, you'll be glad
of it."

The immense Leopard rested his chin on the log and seemed thoughtful.

"The beasts of the forest must decide this matter for themselves," he
said.  "Go you, Rango the Gray Ape, and tell your monkey tribe to order
all the forest beasts to assemble in the Great Clearing at sunrise
to-morrow.  When all are gathered together, this mixed-up Beast who is
a magician shall talk to them and tell them what he has told us.  Then,
if they decide to fight the Oz people, who have declared war on us, I
will lead the beasts to battle."

Rango the Gray Ape turned at once and glided swiftly through the forest
on his mission.  The Bear gave a grunt and walked away.  Gugu the King
rose and stretched himself.  Then he said to Ruggedo: "Meet us at
sunrise to-morrow," and with stately stride vanished among the trees.

The man-unicorn, left alone with the strangers, suddenly stopped his
foolish prancing.

"You'd better make me a Unicorn again," he said.  "I like being a man,
but the forest beasts won't know I'm their friend, Loo, and they might
tear me in pieces before morning."

So Kiki changed him back to his former shape, and the Unicorn departed
to join his people.

Ruggedo the Nome was much pleased with his success.

"To-morrow," he said to Kiki Aru, "we'll win over these beasts and set
them to fight and conquer the Oz people.  Then I will have my revenge
on Ozma and Dorothy and all the rest of my enemies."

"But I am doing all the work," said Kiki.

"Never mind; you're going to be King of Oz," promised Ruggedo.

"Will the big Leopard let me be King?" asked the boy anxiously.

The Nome came close to him and whispered:

"If Gugu the Leopard opposes us, you will transform him into a tree,
and then he will be helpless."

"Of course," agreed Kiki, and he said to himself: "I shall also
transform this deceitful Nome into a tree, for he lies and I cannot
trust him."




9.  The Isle of the Magic Flower


The Glass Cat was a good guide and led Trot and Cap'n Bill by straight
and easy paths through all the settled part of the Munchkin Country,
and then into the north section where there were few houses, and
finally through a wild country where there were no houses or paths at
all.  But the walking was not difficult and at last they came to the
edge of a forest and stopped there to make camp and sleep until morning.

From branches of trees Cap'n Bill made a tiny house that was just big
enough for the little girl to crawl into and lie down.  But first they
ate some of the food Trot had carried in the basket.

"Don't you want some, too?" she asked the Glass Cat.

"No," answered the creature.

"I suppose you'll hunt around an' catch a mouse," remarked Cap'n Bill.

"Me?  Catch a mouse!  Why should I do that?" inquired the Glass Cat.

"Why, then you could eat it," said the sailor-man.

"I beg to inform you," returned the crystal tabby, "that I do not eat
mice.  Being transparent, so anyone can see through me, I'd look nice,
wouldn't I, with a common mouse inside me?  But the fact is that I
haven't any stomach or other machinery that would permit me to eat
things.  The careless magician who made me didn't think I'd need to
eat, I suppose."

"Don't you ever get hungry or thirsty?" asked Trot.

"Never.  I don't complain, you know, at the way I'm made, for I've
never yet seen any living thing as beautiful as I am.  I have the
handsomest brains in the world.  They're pink, and you can see 'em
work."

"I wonder," said Trot thoughtfully, as she ate her bread and jam, "if
MY brains whirl around in the same way yours do."

"No; not the same way, surely," returned the Glass Cat; "for, in that
case, they'd be as good as MY brains, except that they're hidden under
a thick, boney skull."

"Brains," remarked Cap'n Bill, "is of all kinds and work different
ways.  But I've noticed that them as thinks that their brains is best
is often mistook."

Trot was a little disturbed by sounds from the forest, that night, for
many beasts seemed prowling among the trees, but she was confident
Cap'n Bill would protect her from harm.  And in fact, no beast ventured
from the forest to attack them.

At daybreak they were up again, and after a simple breakfast Cap'n Bill
said to the Glass Cat:

"Up anchor, Mate, and let's forge ahead.  I don't suppose we're far
from that Magic Flower, are we?"

"Not far," answered the transparent one, as it led the way into the
forest, "but it may take you some time to get to it."

Before long they reached the bank of a river.  It was not very wide, at
this place, but as they followed the banks in a northerly direction it
gradually broadened.

Suddenly the blue-green leaves of the trees changed to a purple hue,
and Trot noticed this and said:

"I wonder what made the colors change like that?"

"It's because we have left the Munchkin Country and entered the
Gillikin Country," explained the Glass Cat.  "Also it's a sign our
journey is nearly ended."

The river made a sudden turn, and after the travelers had passed around
the bend, they saw that the stream had now become as broad as a small
lake, and in the center of the Lake they beheld a little island, not
more than fifty feet in extent, either way.  Something glittered in the
middle of this tiny island, and the Glass Cat paused on the bank and
said:

"There is the gold flower-pot containing the Magic Flower, which is
very curious and beautiful.  If you can get to the island, your task is
ended--except to carry the thing home with you."

Cap'n Bill looked at the broad expanse of water and began to whistle a
low, quavering tune.  Trot knew that the whistle meant that Cap'n Bill
was thinking, and the old sailor didn't look at the island as much as
he looked at the trees upon the bank where they stood.  Presently he
took from the big pocket of his coat an axe-blade, wound in an old
cloth to keep the sharp edge from cutting his clothing.  Then, with a
large pocket knife, he cut a small limb from a tree and whittled it
into a handle for his axe.

"Sit down, Trot," he advised the girl, as he worked.  "I've got quite a
job ahead of me now, for I've got to build us a raft."

"What do we need a raft for, Cap'n?"

"Why, to take us to the island.  We can't walk under water, in the
river bed, as the Glass Cat did, so we must float atop the water."

"Can you make a raft, Cap'n Bill?"

"O' course, Trot, if you give me time."

The little girl sat down on a log and gazed at the Island of the Magic
Flower.  Nothing else seemed to grow on the tiny isle.  There was no
tree, no shrub, no grass, even, as far as she could make out from that
distance.  But the gold pot glittered in the rays of the sun, and Trot
could catch glimpses of glowing colors above it, as the Magic Flower
changed from one sort to another.

"When I was here before," remarked the Glass Cat, lazily reclining at
the girl's feet, "I saw two Kalidahs on this very bank, where they had
come to drink."

"What are Kalidahs?" asked the girl.

"The most powerful and ferocious beasts in all Oz.  This forest is
their especial home, and so there are few other beasts to be found
except monkeys.  The monkeys are spry enough to keep out of the way of
the fierce Kalidahs, which attack all other animals and often fight
among themselves."

"Did they try to fight you when you saw 'em?" asked Trot, getting very
much excited.

"Yes.  They sprang upon me in an instant; but I lay flat on the ground,
so I wouldn't get my legs broken by the great weight of the beasts, and
when they tried to bite me I laughed at them and jeered them until they
were frantic with rage, for they nearly broke their teeth on my hard
glass.  So, after a time, they discovered they could not hurt me, and
went away.  It was great fun."

"I hope they don't come here again to drink,--not while we're here,
anyhow," returned the girl, "for I'm not made of glass, nor is Cap'n
Bill, and if those bad beasts bit us, we'd get hurt."

Cap'n Bill was cutting from the trees some long stakes, making them
sharp at one end and leaving a crotch at the other end.  These were to
bind the logs of his raft together.  He had fashioned several and was
just finishing another when the Glass Cat cried: "Look out!  There's a
Kalidah coming toward us."

Trot jumped up, greatly frightened, and looked at the terrible animal
as if fascinated by its fierce eyes, for the Kalidah was looking at
her, too, and its look wasn't at all friendly.  But Cap'n Bill called
to her: "Wade into the river, Trot, up to your knees--an' stay there!"
and she obeyed him at once.  The sailor-man hobbled forward, the stake
in one hand and his axe in the other, and got between the girl and the
beast, which sprang upon him with a growl of defiance.

Cap'n Bill moved pretty slowly, sometimes, but now he was quick as
could be.  As the Kalidah sprang toward him he stuck out his wooden leg
and the point of it struck the beast between the eyes and sent it
rolling upon the ground.  Before it could get upon its feet again the
sailor pushed the sharp stake right through its body and then with the
flat side of the axe he hammered the stake as far into the ground as it
would go.  By this means he captured the great beast and made it
harmless, for try as it would, it could not get away from the stake
that held it.

Cap'n Bill knew he could not kill the Kalidah, for no living thing in
Oz can be killed, so he stood back and watched the beast wriggle and
growl and paw the earth with its sharp claws, and then, satisfied it
could not escape, he told Trot to come out of the water again and dry
her wet shoes and stockings in the sun.

"Are you sure he can't get away?" she asked.

"I'd bet a cookie on it," said Cap'n Bill, so Trot came ashore and took
off her shoes and stockings and laid them on the log to dry, while the
sailor-man resumed his work on the raft.

The Kalidah, realizing after many struggles that it could not escape,
now became quiet, but it said in a harsh, snarling voice:

"I suppose you think you're clever, to pin me to the ground in this
manner.  But when my friends, the other Kalidahs, come here, they'll
tear you to pieces for treating me this way."

"P'raps," remarked Cap'n Bill, coolly, as he chopped at the logs, "an'
p'raps not.  When are your folks comin' here?"

"I don't know," admitted the Kalidah.  "But when they DO come, you
can't escape them."

"If they hold off long enough, I'll have my raft ready," said Cap'n
Bill.

"What are you going to do with a raft?" inquired the beast.

"We're goin' over to that island, to get the Magic Flower."

The huge beast looked at him in surprise a moment, and then it began to
laugh.  The laugh was a good deal like a roar, and it had a cruel and
derisive sound, but it was a laugh nevertheless.

"Good!" said the Kalidah.  "Good!  Very good!  I'm glad you're going to
get the Magic Flower.  But what will you do with it?"

"We're going to take it to Ozma, as a present on her birthday."

The Kalidah laughed again; then it became sober.  "If you get to the
land on your raft before my people can catch you," it said, "you will
be safe from us.  We can swim like ducks, so the girl couldn't have
escaped me by getting into the water; but Kalidahs don't go to that
island over there."

"Why not?" asked Trot.

The beast was silent.

"Tell us the reason," urged Cap'n Bill.

"Well, it's the Isle of the Magic Flower," answered the Kalidah, "and
we don't care much for magic.  If you hadn't had a magic leg, instead
of a meat one, you couldn't have knocked me over so easily and stuck
this wooden pin through me."

"I've been to the Magic Isle," said the Glass Cat, "and I've watched
the Magic Flower bloom, and I'm sure it's too pretty to be left in that
lonely place where only beasts prowl around it and no else sees it.  So
we're going to take it away to the Emerald City."

"I don't care," the beast replied in a surly tone.  "We Kalidahs would
be just as contented if there wasn't a flower in our forest.  What good
are the things anyhow?"

"Don't you like pretty things?" asked Trot.

"No."

"You ought to admire my pink brains, anyhow," declared the Glass Cat.
"They're beautiful and you can see 'em work."

The beast only growled in reply, and Cap'n Bill, having now cut all his
logs to a proper size, began to roll them to the water's edge and
fasten them together.




10.  Stuck Fast


The day was nearly gone when, at last, the raft was ready.

"It ain't so very big," said the old sailor, "but I don't weigh much,
an' you, Trot, don't weigh half as much as I do, an' the glass pussy
don't count."

"But it's safe, isn't it?" inquired the girl.

"Yes; it's good enough to carry us to the island an' back again, an'
that's about all we can expect of it."

Saying this, Cap'n Bill pushed the raft into the water, and when it was
afloat, stepped upon it and held out his hand to Trot, who quickly
followed him.  The Glass Cat boarded the raft last of all.

The sailor had cut a long pole, and had also whittled a flat paddle,
and with these he easily propelled the raft across the river.  As they
approached the island, the Wonderful Flower became more plainly
visible, and they quickly decided that the Glass Cat had not praised it
too highly.  The colors of the flowers that bloomed in quick succession
were strikingly bright and beautiful, and the shapes of the blossoms
were varied and curious.  Indeed, they did not resemble ordinary
flowers at all.

So intently did Trot and Cap'n Bill gaze upon the Golden Flower-pot
that held the Magic Flower that they scarcely noticed the island itself
until the raft beached upon its sands.  But then the girl exclaimed:
"How funny it is, Cap'n Bill, that nothing else grows here excep' the
Magic Flower."

Then the sailor glanced at the island and saw that it was all bare
ground, without a weed, a stone or a blade of grass.  Trot, eager to
examine the Flower closer, sprang from the raft and ran up the bank
until she reached the Golden Flower-pot.  Then she stood beside it
motionless and filled with wonder.  Cap'n Bill joined her, coming more
leisurely, and he, too, stood in silent admiration for a time.

"Ozma will like this," remarked the Glass Cat, sitting down to watch
the shifting hues of the flowers.  "I'm sure she won't have as fine a
birthday present from anyone else."

"Do you 'spose it's very heavy, Cap'n?  And can we get it home without
breaking it?" asked Trot anxiously.

"Well, I've lifted many bigger things than that," he replied; "but
let's see what it weighs."

He tried to take a step forward, but could not lift his meat foot from
the ground.  His wooden leg seemed free enough, but the other would not
budge.

"I seem stuck, Trot," he said, with a perplexed look at his foot.  "It
ain't mud, an' it ain't glue, but somethin's holdin' me down."

The girl attempted to lift her own feet, to go nearer to her friend,
but the ground held them as fast as it held Cap'n Bill's foot.  She
tried to slide them, or to twist them around, but it was no use; she
could not move either foot a hair's breadth.

"This is funny!" she exclaimed. "What do you 'spose has happened to us,
Cap'n Bill?"

"I'm tryin' to make out," he answered.  "Take off your shoes, Trot.
P'raps it's the leather soles that's stuck to the ground."

She leaned down and unlaced her shoes, but found she could not pull her
feet out of them.  The Glass Cat, which was walking around as naturally
as ever, now said:

"Your foot has got roots to it, Cap'n, and I can see the roots going
into the ground, where they spread out in all directions.  It's the
same way with Trot.  That's why you can't move.  The roots hold you
fast."

Cap'n Bill was rather fat and couldn't see his own feet very well, but
he squatted down and examined Trot's feet and decided that the Glass
Cat was right.

"This is hard luck," he declared, in a voice that showed he was uneasy
at the discovery.  "We're pris'ners, Trot, on this funny island, an'
I'd like to know how we're ever goin' to get loose, so's we can get
home again."

"Now I know why the Kalidah laughed at us," said the girl, "and why he
said none of the beasts ever came to this island.  The horrid creature
knew we'd be caught, and wouldn't warn us."

In the meantime, the Kalidah, although pinned fast to the earth by
Cap'n Bill's stake, was facing the island, and now the ugly expression
which passed over its face when it defied and sneered at Cap'n Bill and
Trot, had changed to one of amusement and curiosity.  When it saw the
adventurers had actually reached the island and were standing beside
the Magic Flower, it heaved a breath of satisfaction--a long, deep
breath that swelled its deep chest until the beast could feel the stake
that held him move a little, as if withdrawing itself from the ground.

"Ah ha!" murmured the Kalidah, "a little more of this will set me free
and allow me to escape!"

So he began breathing as hard as he could, puffing out his chest as
much as possible with each indrawing breath, and by doing this he
managed to raise the stake with each powerful breath, until at last the
Kalidah--using the muscles of his four legs as well as his deep
breaths--found itself free of the sandy soil.  The stake was sticking
right through him, however, so he found a rock deeply set in the bank
and pressed the sharp point of the stake upon the surface of this rock
until he had driven it clear through his body.  Then, by getting the
stake tangled among some thorny bushes, and wiggling his body, he
managed to draw it out altogether.

"There!" he exclaimed, "except for those two holes in me, I'm as good
as ever; but I must admit that that old wooden-legged fellow saved both
himself and the girl by making me a prisoner."

Now the Kalidahs, although the most disagreeable creatures in the Land
of Oz, were nevertheless magical inhabitants of a magical Fairyland,
and in their natures a certain amount of good was mingled with the
evil.  This one was not very revengeful, and now that his late foes
were in danger of perishing, his anger against them faded away.

"Our own Kalidah King," he reflected, "has certain magical powers of
his own.  Perhaps he knows how to fill up these two holes in my body."

So without paying any more attention to Trot and Cap'n Bill than they
were paying to him, he entered the forest and trotted along a secret
path that led to the hidden lair of all the Kalidahs.

While the Kalidah was making good its escape Cap'n Bill took his pipe
from his pocket and filled it with tobacco and lighted it.  Then, as he
puffed out the smoke, he tried to think what could be done.

"The Glass Cat seems all right," he said, "an' my wooden leg didn't
take roots and grow, either.  So it's only flesh that gets caught."

"It's magic that does it, Cap'n!"

"I know, Trot, and that's what sticks me.  We're livin' in a magic
country, but neither of us knows any magic an' so we can't help
ourselves."

"Couldn't the Wizard of Oz help us--or Glinda the Good?" asked the
little girl.

"Ah, now we're beginnin' to reason," he answered.  "I'd probably
thought o' that, myself, in a minute more.  By good luck the Glass Cat
is free, an' so it can run back to the Emerald City an' tell the Wizard
about our fix, an' ask him to come an' help us get loose."

"Will you go?" Trot asked the cat, speaking very earnestly.

"I'm no messenger, to be sent here and there," asserted the curious
animal in a sulky tone of voice.

"Well," said Cap'n Bill, "you've got to go home, anyhow, 'cause you
don't want to stay here, I take it.  And, when you get home, it
wouldn't worry you much to tell the Wizard what's happened to us."

"That's true," said the cat, sitting on its haunches and lazily washing
its face with one glass paw.  "I don't mind telling the Wizard--when I
get home."

"Won't you go now?" pleaded Trot.  "We don't want to stay here any
longer than we can help, and everybody in Oz will be interested in you,
and call you a hero, and say nice things about you because you helped
your friends out of trouble."

That was the best way to manage the Glass Cat, which was so vain that
it loved to be praised.

"I'm going home right away," said the creature, "and I'll tell the
Wizard to come and help you."

Saying this, it walked down to the water and disappeared under the
surface.  Not being able to manage the raft alone, the Glass Cat walked
on the bottom of the river as it had done when it visited the island
before, and soon they saw it appear on the farther bank and trot into
the forest, where it was quickly lost to sight among the trees.

Then Trot heaved a deep sigh.

"Cap'n," said she, "we're in a bad fix.  There's nothing here to eat,
and we can't even lie down to sleep.  Unless the Glass Cat hurries, and
the Wizard hurries, I don't know what's going to become of us!"




11.  The Beasts of the Forest of Gugu


That was a wonderful gathering of wild animals in the Forest of Gugu
next sunrise.  Rango, the Gray Ape, had even called his monkey
sentinels away from the forest edge, and every beast, little and big,
was in the great clearing where meetings were held on occasions of
great importance.

In the center of the clearing stood a great shelving rock, having a
flat, inclined surface, and on this sat the stately Leopard Gugu, who
was King of the Forest.  On the ground beneath him squatted Bru the
Bear, Loo the Unicorn, and Rango the Gray Ape, the King's three
Counselors, and in front of them stood the two strange beasts who had
called themselves Li-Mon-Eags, but were really the transformations of
Ruggedo the Nome, and Kiki Aru the Hyup.

Then came the beasts--rows and rows and rows of them!  The smallest
beasts were nearest the King's rock throne; then there were wolves and
foxes, lynxes and hyenas, and the like; behind them were gathered the
monkey tribes, who were hard to keep in order because they teased the
other animals and were full of mischievous tricks.  Back of the monkeys
were the pumas, jaguars, tigers and lions, and their kind; next the
bears, all sizes and colors; after them bisons, wild asses, zebras and
unicorns; farther on the rhinoceri and hippopotami, and at the far edge
of the forest, close to the trees that shut in the clearing, was a row
of thick-skinned elephants, still as statues but with eyes bright and
intelligent.

Many other kinds of beasts, too numerous to mention, were there, and
some were unlike any beasts we see in the menageries and zoos in our
country.  Some were from the mountains west of the forest, and some
from the plains at the east, and some from the river; but all present
acknowledged the leadership of Gugu, who for many years had ruled them
wisely and forced all to obey the laws.

When the beasts had taken their places in the clearing and the rising
sun was shooting its first bright rays over the treetops, King Gugu
rose on his throne.  The Leopard's giant form, towering above all the
others, caused a sudden hush to fall on the assemblage.

"Brothers," he said in his deep voice, "a stranger has come among us, a
beast of curious form who is a great magician and is able to change the
shapes of men or beasts at his will.  This stranger has come to us,
with another of his kind, from out of the sky, to warn us of a danger
which threatens us all, and to offer us a way to escape from that
danger.  He says he is our friend, and he has proved to me and to my
Counselors his magic powers.  Will you listen to what he has to say to
you--to the message he has brought from the sky?"

"Let him speak!" came in a great roar from the great company of
assembled beasts.

So Ruggedo the Nome sprang upon the flat rock beside Gugu the King, and
another roar, gentle this time, showed how astonished the beasts were
at the sight of his curious form.  His lion's face was surrounded by a
mane of pure white hair; his eagle's wings were attached to the
shoulders of his monkey body and were so long that they nearly touched
the ground; he had powerful arms and legs in addition to the wings, and
at the end of his long, strong tail was a golden ball.  Never had any
beast beheld such a curious creature before, and so the very sight of
the stranger, who was said to be a great magician, filled all present
with awe and wonder.

Kiki stayed down below and, half hidden by the shelf of rock, was
scarcely noticed.  The boy realized that the old Nome was helpless
without his magic power, but he also realized that Ruggedo was the best
talker.  So he was willing the Nome should take the lead.

"Beasts of the Forest of Gugu," began Ruggedo the Nome, "my comrade and
I are your friends.  We are magicians, and from our home in the sky we
can look down into the Land of Oz and see everything that is going on.
Also we can hear what the people below us are saying.  That is how we
heard Ozma, who rules the Land of Oz, say to her people: 'The beasts in
the Forest of Gugu are lazy and are of no use to us.  Let us go to
their forest and make them all our prisoners.  Let us tie them with
ropes, and beat them with sticks, until they work for us and become our
willing slaves.'  And when the people heard Ozma of Oz say this, they
were glad and raised a great shout and said: 'We will do it!  We will
make the beasts of the Forest of Gugu our slaves!'"

The wicked old Nome could say no more, just then, for such a fierce
roar of anger rose from the multitude of beasts that his voice was
drowned by the clamor.  Finally the roar died away, like distant
thunder, and Ruggedo the Nome went on with his speech.

"Having heard the Oz people plot against your liberty, we watched to
see what they would do, and saw them all begin making ropes--ropes long
and short--with which to snare our friends the beasts.  You are angry,
but we also were angry, for when the Oz people became the enemies of
the beasts they also became our enemies; for we, too, are beasts,
although we live in the sky.  And my comrade and I said: 'We will save
our friends and have revenge on the Oz people,' and so we came here to
tell you of your danger and of our plan to save you."

"We can save ourselves," cried an old Elephant.  "We can fight."

"The Oz people are fairies, and you can't fight against magic unless
you also have magic," answered the Nome.

"Tell us your plan!" shouted the huge Tiger, and the other beasts
echoed his words, crying: "Tell us your plan."

"My plan is simple," replied Ruggedo.  "By our magic we will transform
all you animals into men and women--like the Oz people--and we will
transform all the Oz people into beasts.  You can then live in the fine
houses of the Land of Oz, and eat the fine food of the Oz people, and
wear their fine clothes, and sing and dance and be happy.  And the Oz
people, having become beasts, will have to live here in the forest and
hunt and fight for food, and often go hungry, as you now do, and have
no place to sleep but a bed of leaves or a hole in the ground.  Having
become men and women, you beasts will have all the comforts you desire,
and having become beasts, the Oz people will be very miserable.  That
is our plan, and if you agree to it, we will all march at once into the
Land of Oz and quickly conquer our enemies."

When the stranger ceased speaking, a great silence fell on the
assemblage, for the beasts were thinking of what he had said.  Finally
one of the walruses asked:

"Can you really transform beasts into men, and men into beasts?"

"He can--he can!" cried Loo the Unicorn, prancing up and down in an
excited manner.  "He transformed ME, only last evening, and he can
transform us all."

Gugu the King now stepped forward.

"You have heard the stranger speak," said he, "and now you must answer
him.  It is for you to decide.  Shall we agree to this plan, or not?"

"Yes!" shouted some of the animals.

"No!" shouted others.

And some were yet silent.

Gugu looked around the great circle.

"Take more time to think," he suggested.  "Your answer is very
important.  Up to this time we have had no trouble with the Oz people,
but we are proud and free, and never will become slaves.  Think
carefully, and when you are ready to answer, I will hear you."




12.  Kiki Uses His Magic


Then arose a great confusion of sounds as all the animals began talking
to their fellows.  The monkeys chattered and the bears growled and the
voices of the jaguars and lions rumbled, and the wolves yelped and the
elephants had to trumpet loudly to make their voices heard.  Such a
hubbub had never been known in the forest before, and each beast argued
with his neighbor until it seemed the noise would never cease.

Ruggedo the Nome waved his arms and fluttered his wings to try to make
them listen to him again, but the beasts paid no attention.  Some
wanted to fight the Oz people, some wanted to be transformed, and some
wanted to do nothing at all.

The growling and confusion had grown greater than ever when in a flash
silence fell on all the beasts present, the arguments were hushed, and
all gazed in astonishment at a strange sight.

For into the circle strode a great Lion--bigger and more powerful than
any other lion there--and on his back rode a little girl who smiled
fearlessly at the multitude of beasts.  And behind the Lion and the
little girl came another beast--a monstrous Tiger, who bore upon his
back a funny little man carrying a black bag.  Right past the rows of
wondering beasts the strange animals walked, advancing until they stood
just before the rock throne of Gugu.

Then the little girl and the funny little man dismounted, and the great
Lion demanded in a loud voice:

"Who is King in this forest?"

"I am!" answered Gugu, looking steadily at the other.  "I am Gugu the
Leopard, and I am King of this forest."

"Then I greet Your Majesty with great respect," said the Lion.
"Perhaps you have heard of me, Gugu.  I am called the 'Cowardly Lion,'
and I am King of all Beasts, the world over."

Gugu's eyes flashed angrily.

"Yes," said he, "I have heard of you.  You have long claimed to be King
of Beasts, but no beast who is a coward can be King over me."

"He isn't a coward, Your Majesty," asserted the little girl, "He's just
cowardly, that's all."

Gugu looked at her.  All the other beasts were looking at her, too.

"Who are you?" asked the King.

"Me?  Oh, I'm just Dorothy," she answered.

"How dare you come here?" demanded the King.

"Why, I'm not afraid to go anywhere, if the Cowardly Lion is with me,"
she said.  "I know him pretty well, and so I can trust him.  He's
always afraid, when we get into trouble, and that's why he's cowardly;
but he's a terrible fighter, and that's why he isn't a coward.  He
doesn't like to fight, you know, but when he HAS to, there isn't any
beast living that can conquer him."

Gugu the King looked at the big, powerful form of the Cowardly Lion,
and knew she spoke the truth.  Also the other Lions of the forest now
came forward and bowed low before the strange Lion.

"We welcome Your Majesty," said one.  "We have known you many years
ago, before you went to live at the Emerald City, and we have seen you
fight the terrible Kalidahs and conquer them, so we know you are the
King of all Beasts."

"It is true," replied the Cowardly Lion; "but I did not come here to
rule the beasts of this forest.  Gugu is King here, and I believe he is
a good King and just and wise.  I come, with my friends, to be the
guest of Gugu, and I hope we are welcome."

That pleased the great Leopard, who said very quickly:

"Yes; you, at least, are welcome to my forest.  But who are these
strangers with you?"

"Dorothy has introduced herself," replied the Lion, "and you are sure
to like her when you know her better.  This man is the Wizard of Oz, a
friend of mine who can do wonderful tricks of magic.  And here is my
true and tried friend, the Hungry Tiger, who lives with me in the
Emerald City."

"Is he ALWAYS hungry?" asked Loo the Unicorn.

"I am," replied the Tiger, answering the question himself.  "I am
always hungry for fat babies."

"Can't you find any fat babies in Oz to eat?" inquired Loo, the Unicorn.

"There are plenty of them, of course," said the Tiger, "but
unfortunately I have such a tender conscience that it won't allow me to
eat babies.  So I'm always hungry for 'em and never can eat 'em,
because my conscience won't let me."

Now of all the surprised beasts in that clearing, not one was so much
surprised at the sudden appearance of these four strangers as Ruggedo
the Nome.  He was frightened, too, for he recognized them as his most
powerful enemies; but he also realized that they could not know he was
the former King of the Nomes, because of the beast's form he wore,
which disguised him so effectually.  So he took courage and resolved
that the Wizard and Dorothy should not defeat his plans.

It was hard to tell, just yet, what the vast assemblage of beasts
thought of the new arrivals.  Some glared angrily at them, but more of
them seemed to be curious and wondering.  All were interested, however,
and they kept very quiet and listened carefully to all that was said.

Kiki Aru, who had remained unnoticed in the shadow of the rock, was at
first more alarmed by the coming of the strangers than even Ruggedo
was, and the boy told himself that unless he acted quickly and without
waiting to ask the advice of the old Nome, their conspiracy was likely
to be discovered and all their plans to conquer and rule Oz be
defeated.  Kiki didn't like the way Ruggedo acted either, for the
former King of the Nomes wanted to do everything his own way, and made
the boy, who alone possessed the power of transformations, obey his
orders as if he were a slave.

Another thing that disturbed Kiki Aru was the fact that a real Wizard
had arrived, who was said to possess many magical powers, and this
Wizard carried his tools in a black bag, and was the friend of the Oz
people, and so would probably try to prevent war between the beasts of
the forest and the people of Oz.

All these things passed through the mind of the Hyup boy while the
Cowardly Lion and Gugu the King were talking together, and that was why
he now began to do several strange things.

He had found a place, near to the point where he stood, where there was
a deep hollow in the rock, so he put his face into this hollow and
whispered softly, so he would not be heard:

"I want the Wizard of Oz to become a fox--Pyrzqxgl!"

The Wizard, who had stood smilingly beside his friends, suddenly felt
his form change to that of a fox, and his black bag fell to the ground.
Kiki reached out an arm and seized the bag, and the Fox cried as loud
as it could:

"Treason!  There's a traitor here with magic powers!"

Everyone was startled at this cry, and Dorothy, seeing her old friend's
plight, screamed and exclaimed: "Mercy me!"

But the next instant the little girl's form had changed to that of a
lamb with fleecy white wool, and Dorothy was too bewildered to do
anything but look around her in wonder.

The Cowardly Lion's eyes now flashed fire; he crouched low and lashed
the ground with his tail and gazed around to discover who the
treacherous magician might be.  But Kiki, who had kept his face in the
hollow rock, again whispered the magic word, and the great lion
disappeared and in his place stood a little boy dressed in Munchkin
costume.  The little Munchkin boy was as angry as the lion had been,
but he was small and helpless.

Ruggedo the Nome saw what was happening and was afraid Kiki would spoil
all his plans, so he leaned over the rock and shouted: "Stop,
Kiki--stop!"

Kiki would not stop, however.  Instead, he transformed the Nome into a
goose, to Ruggedo's horror and dismay.  But the Hungry Tiger had
witnessed all these transformations, and he was watching to see which
of those present was to blame for them.  When Ruggedo spoke to Kiki,
the Hungry Tiger knew that he was the magician, so he made a sudden
spring and hurled his great body full upon the form of the Li-Mon-Eag
crouching against the rock.  Kiki didn't see the Tiger coming because
his face was still in the hollow, and the heavy body of the tiger bore
him to the earth just as he said "Pyrzqxgl!" for the fifth time.

So now the tiger which was crushing him changed to a rabbit, and
relieved of its weight, Kiki sprang up and, spreading his eagle's
wings, flew into the branches of a tree, where no beast could easily
reach him.  He was not an instant too quick in doing this, for Gugu the
King had crouched on the rock's edge and was about to spring on the boy.

From his tree Kiki transformed Gugu into a fat Gillikin woman, and
laughed aloud to see how the woman pranced with rage, and how
astonished all the beasts were at their King's new shape.

The beasts were frightened, too, fearing they would share the fate of
Gugu, so a stampede began when Rango the Gray Ape sprang into the
forest, and Bru the Bear and Loo the Unicorn followed as quickly as
they could.  The elephants backed into the forest, and all the other
animals, big and little, rushed after them, scattering through the
jungles until the clearing was far behind.  The monkeys scrambled into
the trees and swung themselves from limb to limb, to avoid being
trampled upon by the bigger beasts, and they were so quick that they
distanced all the rest.  A panic of fear seemed to have overtaken the
forest people and they got as far away from the terrible Magician as
they possibly could.

But the transformed ones stayed in the clearing, being so astonished
and bewildered by their new shapes that they could only look at one
another in a dazed and helpless fashion, although each one was greatly
annoyed at the trick that had been played on him.

"Who are you?" the Munchkin boy asked the Rabbit; and "Who are you?"
the Fox asked the Lamb; and "Who are you?" the Rabbit asked the fat
Gillikin woman.

"I'm Dorothy," said the woolly Lamb.

"I'm the Wizard," said the Fox.

"I'm the Cowardly Lion," said the Munchkin boy.

"I'm the Hungry Tiger," said the Rabbit.

"I'm Gugu the King," said the fat Woman.

But when they asked the Goose who he was, Ruggedo the Nome would not
tell them.

"I'm just a Goose," he replied, "and what I was before, I cannot
remember."




13.  The Loss of the Black Bag


Kiki Aru, in the form of the Li-Mon-Eag, had scrambled into the high,
thick branches of the tree, so no one could see him, and there he
opened the Wizard's black bag, which he had carried away in his flight.
He was curious to see what the Wizard's magic tools looked like, and
hoped he could use some of them and so secure more power; but after he
had taken the articles, one by one, from the bag, he had to admit they
were puzzles to him.  For, unless he understood their uses, they were
of no value whatever.  Kiki Aru, the Hyup boy, was no wizard or
magician at all, and could do nothing unusual except to use the Magic
Word he had stolen from his father on Mount Munch.  So he hung the
Wizard's black bag on a branch of the tree and then climbed down to the
lower limbs that he might see what the victims of his transformations
were doing.

They were all on top of the flat rock, talking together in tones so low
that Kiki could not hear what they said.

"This is certainly a misfortune," remarked the Wizard in the Fox's
form, "but our transformations are a sort of enchantment which is very
easy to break--when you know how and have the tools to do it with.  The
tools are in my Black Bag; but where is the Bag?"

No one knew that, for none had seen Kiki Aru fly away with it.

"Let's look and see if we can find it," suggested Dorothy the Lamb.

So they left the rock, and all of them searched the clearing high and
low without finding the Bag of Magic Tools.  The Goose searched as
earnestly as the others, for if he could discover it, he meant to hide
it where the Wizard could never find it, because if the Wizard changed
him back to his proper form, along with the others, he would then be
recognized as Ruggedo the Nome, and they would send him out of the Land
of Oz and so ruin all his hopes of conquest.

Ruggedo was not really sorry, now that he thought about it, that Kiki
had transformed all these Oz folks.  The forest beasts, it was true,
had been so frightened that they would now never consent to be
transformed into men, but Kiki could transform them against their will,
and once they were all in human forms, it would not be impossible to
induce them to conquer the Oz people.

So all was not lost, thought the old Nome, and the best thing for him
to do was to rejoin the Hyup boy who had the secret of the
transformations.  So, having made sure the Wizard's black bag was not
in the clearing, the Goose wandered away through the trees when the
others were not looking, and when out of their hearing, he began
calling, "Kiki Aru!  Kiki Aru!  Quack--quack!  Kiki Aru!"

The Boy and the Woman, the Fox, the Lamb, and the Rabbit, not being
able to find the bag, went back to the rock, all feeling exceedingly
strange.

"Where's the Goose?" asked the Wizard.

"He must have run away," replied Dorothy.  "I wonder who he was?"

"I think," said Gugu the King, who was the fat Woman, "that the Goose
was the stranger who proposed that we make war upon the Oz people.  If
so, his transformation was merely a trick to deceive us, and he has now
gone to join his comrade, that wicked Li-Mon-Eag who obeyed all his
commands."

"What shall we do now?" asked Dorothy.  "Shall we go back to the
Emerald City, as we are, and then visit Glinda the Good and ask her to
break the enchantments?"

"I think so," replied the Wizard Fox.  "And we can take Gugu the King
with us, and have Glinda restore him to his natural shape.  But I hate
to leave my Bag of Magic Tools behind me, for without it I shall lose
much of my power as a Wizard.  Also, if I go back to the Emerald City
in the shape of a Fox, the Oz people will think I'm a poor Wizard and
will lose their respect for me."

"Let us make still another search for your tools," suggested the
Cowardly Lion, "and then, if we fail to find the Black Bag anywhere in
this forest, we must go back home as we are."

"Why did you come here, anyway?" inquired Gugu.

"We wanted to borrow a dozen monkeys, to use on Ozma's birthday,"
explained the Wizard.  "We were going to make them small, and train
them to do tricks, and put them inside Ozma's birthday cake."

"Well," said the Forest King, "you would have to get the consent of
Rango the Gray Ape, to do that.  He commands all the tribes of monkeys."

"I'm afraid it's too late, now," said Dorothy, regretfully.  "It was a
splendid plan, but we've got troubles of our own, and I don't like
being a lamb at all."

"You're nice and fuzzy," said the Cowardly Lion.

"That's nothing," declared Dorothy.  "I've never been 'specially proud
of myself, but I'd rather be the way I was born than anything else in
the whole world."


The Glass Cat, although it had some disagreeable ways and manners,
nevertheless realized that Trot and Cap'n Bill were its friends and so
was quite disturbed at the fix it had gotten them into by leading them
to the Isle of the Magic Flower.  The ruby heart of the Glass Cat was
cold and hard, but still it was a heart, and to have a heart of any
sort is to have some consideration for others.  But the queer
transparent creature didn't want Trot and Cap'n Bill to know it was
sorry for them, and therefore it moved very slowly until it had crossed
the river and was out of sight among the trees of the forest.  Then it
headed straight toward the Emerald City, and trotted so fast that it
was like a crystal streak crossing the valleys and plains.  Being
glass, the cat was tireless, and with no reason to delay its journey,
it reached Ozma's palace in wonderfully quick time.

"Where's the Wizard?" it asked the Pink Kitten, which was curled up in
the sunshine on the lowest step of the palace entrance.

"Don't bother me," lazily answered the Pink Kitten, whose name was
Eureka.

"I must find the Wizard at once!" said the Glass Cat.

"Then find him," advised Eureka, and went to sleep again.

The Glass Cat darted up the stairway and came upon Toto, Dorothy's
little black dog.

"Where's the Wizard?" asked the Cat.

"Gone on a journey with Dorothy," replied Toto.

"When did they go, and where have they gone?" demanded the Cat.

"They went yesterday, and I heard them say they would go to the Great
Forest in the Munchkin Country."

"Dear me," said the Glass Cat; "that is a long journey."

"But they rode on the Hungry Tiger and the Cowardly Lion," explained
Toto, "and the Wizard carried his Black Bag of Magic Tools."

The Glass Cat knew the Great Forest of Gugu well, for it had traveled
through this forest many times in its journeys through the Land of Oz.
And it reflected that the Forest of Gugu was nearer to the Isle of the
Magic Flower than the Emerald City was, and so, if it could manage to
find the Wizard, it could lead him across the Gillikin Country to where
Trot and Cap'n Bill were prisoned.  It was a wild country and little
traveled, but the Glass Cat knew every path.  So very little time need
be lost, after all.

Without stopping to ask any more questions the Cat darted out of the
palace and away from the Emerald City, taking the most direct route to
the Forest of Gugu.  Again the creature flashed through the country
like a streak of light, and it would surprise you to know how quickly
it reached the edge of the Great Forest.

There were no monkey guards among the trees to cry out a warning, and
this was so unusual that it astonished the Glass Cat.  Going farther
into the forest it presently came upon a wolf, which at first bounded
away in terror.  But then, seeing it was only a Glass Cat, the Wolf
stopped, and the Cat could see it was trembling, as if from a terrible
fright.

"What's the matter?" asked the Cat.

"A dreadful Magician has come among us!" exclaimed the Wolf, "and he's
changing the forms of all the beasts--quick as a wink--and making them
all his slaves."

The Glass Cat smiled and said:

"Why, that's only the Wizard of Oz.  He may be having some fun with you
forest people, but the Wizard wouldn't hurt a beast for anything."

"I don't mean the Wizard," explained the Wolf.  "And if the Wizard of
Oz is that funny little man who rode a great Tiger into the clearing,
he's been transformed himself by the terrible Magician."

"The Wizard transformed?  Why, that's impossible," declared the Glass
Cat.

"No; it isn't.  I saw him with my own eyes, changed into the form of a
Fox, and the girl who was with him was changed to a woolly Lamb."

The Glass Cat was indeed surprised.

"When did that happen?" it asked.

"Just a little while ago in the clearing.  All the animals had met
there, but they ran away when the Magician began his transformations,
and I'm thankful I escaped with my natural shape.  But I'm still
afraid, and I'm going somewhere to hide."

With this the Wolf ran on, and the Glass Cat, which knew where the big
clearing was, went toward it.  But now it walked more slowly, and its
pink brains rolled and tumbled around at a great rate because it was
thinking over the amazing news the Wolf had told it.

When the Glass Cat reached the clearing, it saw a Fox, a Lamb, a
Rabbit, a Munchkin boy and a fat Gillikin woman, all wandering around
in an aimless sort of way, for they were again searching for the Black
Bag of Magic Tools.

The Cat watched them a moment and then it walked slowly into the open
space.  At once the Lamb ran toward it, crying:

"Oh, Wizard, here's the Glass Cat!"

"Where, Dorothy?" asked the Fox.

"Here!"

The Boy and the Woman and the Rabbit now joined the Fox and the Lamb,
and they all stood before the Glass Cat and speaking together, almost
like a chorus, asked: "Have you seen the Black Bag?"

"Often," replied the Glass Cat, "but not lately."

"It's lost," said the Fox, "and we must find it."

"Are you the Wizard?" asked the Cat.

"Yes."

"And who are these others?"

"I'm Dorothy," said the Lamb.

"I'm the Cowardly Lion," said the Munchkin boy.

"I'm the Hungry Tiger," said the Rabbit.

"I'm Gugu, King of the Forest," said the fat Woman.

The Glass Cat sat on its hind legs and began to laugh.  "My, what a
funny lot!" exclaimed the Creature.  "Who played this joke on you?"

"It's no joke at all," declared the Wizard.  "It was a cruel, wicked
transformation, and the Magician that did it has the head of a lion,
the body of a monkey, the wings of an eagle and a round ball on the end
of his tail."

The Glass Cat laughed again.  "That Magician must look funnier than you
do," it said.  "Where is he now?"

"Somewhere in the forest," said the Cowardly Lion.  "He just jumped
into that tall maple tree over there, for he can climb like a monkey
and fly like an eagle, and then he disappeared in the forest."

"And there was another Magician, just like him, who was his friend,"
added Dorothy, "but they probably quarreled, for the wickedest one
changed his friend into the form of a Goose."

"What became of the Goose?" asked the Cat, looking around.

"He must have gone away to find his friend," answered Gugu the King.
"But a Goose can't travel very fast, so we could easily find him if we
wanted to."

"The worst thing of all," said the Wizard, "is that my Black Bag is
lost.  It disappeared when I was transformed.  If I could find it I
could easily break these enchantments by means of my magic, and we
would resume our own forms again.  Will you help us search for the
Black Bag, Friend Cat?"

"Of course," replied the Glass Cat.  "But I expect the strange Magician
carried it away with him.  If he's a magician, he knows you need that
Bag, and perhaps he's afraid of your magic.  So he's probably taken the
Bag with him, and you won't see it again unless you find the Magician."

"That sounds reasonable," remarked the Lamb, which was Dorothy.  "Those
pink brains of yours seem to be working pretty well to-day."

"If the Glass Cat is right," said the Wizard in a solemn voice,
"there's more trouble ahead of us.  That Magician is dangerous, and if
we go near him he may transform us into shapes not as nice as these."

"I don't see how we could be any WORSE off," growled Gugu, who was
indignant because he was forced to appear in the form of a fat woman.

"Anyway," said the Cowardly Lion, "our best plan is to find the
Magician and try to get the Black Bag from him.  We may manage to steal
it, or perhaps we can argue him into giving it to us."

"Why not find the Goose, first?" asked Dorothy.  "The Goose will be
angry at the Magician, and he may be able to help us."

"That isn't a bad idea," returned the Wizard.  "Come on, Friends; let's
find that Goose.  We will separate and search in different directions,
and the first to find the Goose must bring him here, where we will all
meet again in an hour."




14.  The Wizard Learns the Magic Word


Now, the Goose was the transformation of old Ruggedo, who was at one
time King of the Nomes, and he was even more angry at Kiki Aru than
were the others who shapes had been changed.  The Nome detested
anything in the way of a bird, because birds lay eggs and eggs are
feared by all the Nomes more than anything else in the world.  A goose
is a foolish bird, too, and Ruggedo was dreadfully ashamed of the shape
he was forced to wear.  And it would make him shudder to reflect that
the Goose might lay an egg!

So the Nome was afraid of himself and afraid of everything around him.
If an egg touched him he could then be destroyed, and almost any animal
he met in the forest might easily conquer him.  And that would be the
end of old Ruggedo the Nome.

Aside from these fears, however, he was filled with anger against Kiki,
whom he had meant to trap by cleverly stealing from him the Magic Word.
The boy must have been crazy to spoil everything the way he did, but
Ruggedo knew that the arrival of the Wizard had scared Kiki, and he was
not sorry the boy had transformed the Wizard and Dorothy and made them
helpless.  It was his own transformation that annoyed him and made him
indignant, so he ran about the forest hunting for Kiki, so that he
might get a better shape and coax the boy to follow his plans to
conquer the Land of Oz.

Kiki Aru hadn't gone very far away, for he had surprised himself as
well as the others by the quick transformations and was puzzled as to
what to do next.  Ruggedo the Nome was overbearing and tricky, and Kiki
knew he was not to be depended on; but the Nome could plan and plot,
which the Hyup boy was not wise enough to do, and so, when he looked
down through the branches of a tree and saw a Goose waddling along
below and heard it cry out, "Kiki Aru!  Quack--quack!  Kiki Aru!" the
boy answered in a low voice, "Here I am," and swung himself down to the
lowest limb of the tree.

The Goose looked up and saw him.

"You've bungled things in a dreadful way!" exclaimed the Goose.  "Why
did you do it?"

"Because I wanted to," answered Kiki.  "You acted as if I was your
slave, and I wanted to show these forest people that I am more powerful
than you."

The Goose hissed softly, but Kiki did not hear that.

Old Ruggedo quickly recovered his wits and muttered to himself: "This
boy is the goose, although it is I who wear the goose's shape.  I will
be gentle with him now, and fierce with him when I have him in my
power."  Then he said aloud to Kiki:

"Well, hereafter I will be content to acknowledge you the master.  You
bungled things, as I said, but we can still conquer Oz."

"How?" asked the boy.

"First give me back the shape of the Li-Mon-Eag, and then we can talk
together more conveniently," suggested the Nome.

"Wait a moment, then," said Kiki, and climbed higher up the tree.
There he whispered the Magic Word and the Goose became a Li-Mon-Eag, as
he had been before.

"Good!" said the Nome, well pleased, as Kiki joined him by dropping
down from the tree.  "Now let us find a quiet place where we can talk
without being overheard by the beasts."

So the two started away and crossed the forest until they came to a
place where the trees were not so tall nor so close together, and among
these scattered trees was another clearing, not so large as the first
one, where the meeting of the beasts had been held.  Standing on the
edge of this clearing and looking across it, they saw the trees on the
farther side full of monkeys, who were chattering together at a great
rate of the sights they had witnessed at the meeting.

The old Nome whispered to Kiki not to enter the clearing or allow the
monkeys to see them.

"Why not?" asked the boy, drawing back.

"Because those monkeys are to be our army--the army which will conquer
Oz," said the Nome.  "Sit down here with me, Kiki, and keep quiet, and
I will explain to you my plan."

Now, neither Kiki Aru nor Ruggedo had noticed that a sly Fox had
followed them all the way from the tree where the Goose had been
transformed to the Li-Mon-Eag.  Indeed, this Fox, who was none other
than the Wizard of Oz, had witnessed the transformation of the Goose
and now decided he would keep watch on the conspirators and see what
they would do next.

A Fox can move through a forest very softly, without making any noise,
and so the Wizard's enemies did not suspect his presence.  But when
they sat down by the edge of the clearing, to talk, with their backs
toward him, the Wizard did not know whether to risk being seen, by
creeping closer to hear what they said, or whether it would be better
for him to hide himself until they moved on again.

While he considered this question he discovered near him a great tree
which had a hollow trunk, and there was a round hole in this tree,
about three feet above the ground.  The Wizard Fox decided it would be
safer for him to hide inside the hollow tree, so he sprang into the
hole and crouched down in the hollow, so that his eyes just came to the
edge of the hole by which he had entered, and from here he watched the
forms of the two Li-Mon-Eags.

"This is my plan," said the Nome to Kiki, speaking so low that the
Wizard could only hear the rumble of his voice.  "Since you can
transform anything into any form you wish, we will transform these
monkeys into an army, and with that army we will conquer the Oz people."

"The monkeys won't make much of an army," objected Kiki.

"We need a great army, but not a numerous one," responded the Nome.
"You will transform each monkey into a giant man, dressed in a fine
uniform and armed with a sharp sword.  There are fifty monkeys over
there and fifty giants would make as big an army as we need."

"What will they do with the swords?" asked Kiki.  "Nothing can kill the
Oz people."

"True," said Ruggedo.  "The Oz people cannot be killed, but they can be
cut into small pieces, and while every piece will still be alive, we
can scatter the pieces around so that they will be quite helpless.
Therefore, the Oz people will be afraid of the swords of our army, and
we will conquer them with ease."

"That seems like a good idea," replied the boy, approvingly.  "And in
such a case, we need not bother with the other beasts of the forest."

"No; you have frightened the beasts, and they would no longer consent
to assist us in conquering Oz.  But those monkeys are foolish
creatures, and once they are transformed to Giants, they will do just
as we say and obey our commands.  Can you transform them all at once?"

"No, I must take one at a time," said Kiki.  "But the fifty
transformations can be made in an hour or so.  Stay here, Ruggedo, and
I will change the first monkey--that one at the left, on the end of the
limb--into a Giant with a sword."

"Where are you going?" asked the Nome.

"I must not speak the Magic Word in the presence of another person,"
declared Kiki, who was determined not to allow his treacherous
companion to learn his secret, "so I will go where you cannot hear me."

Ruggedo the Nome was disappointed, but he hoped still to catch the boy
unawares and surprise the Magic Word.  So he merely nodded his lion
head, and Kiki got up and went back into the forest a short distance.
Here he spied a hollow tree, and by chance it was the same hollow tree
in which the Wizard of Oz, now in the form of a Fox, had hidden himself.

As Kiki ran up to the tree the Fox ducked its head, so that it was out
of sight in the dark hollow beneath the hole, and then Kiki put his
face into the hole and whispered: "I want that monkey on the branch at
the left to become a Giant man fifty feet tall, dressed in a uniform
and with a sharp sword--Pyrzqxgl!"

Then he ran back to Ruggedo, but the Wizard Fox had heard quite plainly
every word that he had said.

The monkey was instantly transformed into the Giant, and the Giant was
so big that as he stood on the ground his head was higher than the
trees of the forest.  The monkeys raised a great chatter but did not
seem to understand that the Giant was one of themselves.

"Good!" cried the Nome.  "Hurry, Kiki, and transform the others."

So Kiki rushed back to the tree and putting his face to the hollow,
whispered:

"I want the next monkey to be just like the first--Pyrzqxgl!"

Again the Wizard Fox heard the Magic Word, and just how it was
pronounced.  But he sat still in the hollow and waited to hear it
again, so it would be impressed on his mind and he would not forget it.

Kiki kept running to the edge of the forest and back to the hollow tree
again until he had whispered the Magic Word six times and six monkeys
had been changed to six great Giants.  Then the Wizard decided he would
make an experiment and use the Magic Word himself.  So, while Kiki was
running back to the Nome, the Fox stuck his head out of the hollow and
said softly: "I want that creature who is running to become a
hickory-nut--Pyrzqxgl!"

Instantly the Li-Mon-Eag form of Kiki Aru the Hyup disappeared and a
small hickory-nut rolled upon the ground a moment and then lay still.

The Wizard was delighted, and leaped from the hollow just as Ruggedo
looked around to see what had become of Kiki.  The Nome saw the Fox but
no Kiki, so he hastily rose to his feet.  The Wizard did not know how
powerful the queer beast might be, so he resolved to take no chances.

"I want this creature to become a walnut--Pyrzqxgl!" he said aloud.
But he did not pronounce the Magic Word in quite the right way, and
Ruggedo's form did not change.  But the Nome knew at once that
"Pyrzqxgl!" was the Magic Word, so he rushed at the Fox and cried:

"I want you to become a Goose--Pyrzqxgl!"

But the Nome did not pronounce the word aright, either, having never
heard it spoken but once before, and then with a wrong accent.  So the
Fox was not transformed, but it had to run away to escape being caught
by the angry Nome.

Ruggedo now began pronouncing the Magic Word in every way he could
think of, hoping to hit the right one, and the Fox, hiding in a bush,
was somewhat troubled by the fear that he might succeed.  However, the
Wizard, who was used to magic arts, remained calm and soon remembered
exactly how Kiki Aru had pronounced the word.  So he repeated the
sentence he had before uttered and Ruggedo the Nome became an ordinary
walnut.

The Wizard now crept out from the bush and said: "I want my own form
again--Pyrzqxgl!"

Instantly he was the Wizard of Oz, and after picking up the hickory-nut
and the walnut, and carefully placing them in his pocket, he ran back
to the big clearing.

Dorothy the Lamb uttered a bleat of delight when she saw her old friend
restored to his natural shape.  The others were all there, not having
found the Goose.  The fat Gillikin woman, the Munchkin boy, the Rabbit
and the Glass Cat crowded around the Wizard and asked what had happened.

Before he explained anything of his adventure, he transformed them
all--except, of course, the Glass Cat--into their natural shapes, and
when their joy permitted them to quiet somewhat, he told how he had by
chance surprised the Magician's secret and been able to change the two
Li-Mon-Eags into shapes that could not speak, and therefore would be
unable to help themselves.  And the little Wizard showed his astonished
friends the hickory-nut and the walnut to prove that he had spoken the
truth.

"But--see here!"--exclaimed Dorothy.  "What has become of those Giant
Soldiers who used to be monkeys?"

"I forgot all about them!" admitted the Wizard; "but I suppose they are
still standing there in the forest."




15.  The Lonesome Duck


Trot and Cap'n Bill stood before the Magic Flower, actually rooted to
the spot.

"Aren't you hungry, Cap'n?" asked the little girl, with a long sigh,
for she had been standing there for hours and hours.

"Well," replied the sailor-man, "I ain't sayin' as I couldn't EAT,
Trot--if a dinner was handy--but I guess old folks don't get as hungry
as young folks do."

"I'm not sure 'bout that, Cap'n Bill," she said thoughtfully.  "Age
MIGHT make a diff'rence, but seems to me SIZE would make a bigger
diff'rence.  Seeing you're twice as big as me, you ought to be twice as
hungry."

"I hope I am," he rejoined, "for I can stand it a while longer.  I do
hope the Glass Cat will hurry, and I hope the Wizard won't waste time
a-comin' to us."

Trot sighed again and watched the wonderful Magic Flower, because there
was nothing else to do.  Just now a lovely group of pink peonies budded
and bloomed, but soon they faded away, and a mass of deep blue lilies
took their place.  Then some yellow chrysanthemums blossomed on the
plant, and when they had opened all their petals and reached
perfection, they gave way to a lot of white floral balls spotted with
crimson--a flower Trot had never seen before.

"But I get awful tired watchin' flowers an' flowers an' flowers," she
said impatiently.

"They're might pretty," observed Cap'n Bill.

"I know; and if a person could come and look at the Magic Flower just
when she felt like it, it would be a fine thing, but to HAVE TO stand
and watch it, whether you want to or not, isn't so much fun.  I wish,
Cap'n Bill, the thing would grow fruit for a while instead of flowers."

Scarcely had she spoken when the white balls with crimson spots faded
away and a lot of beautiful ripe peaches took their place.  With a cry
of mingled surprise and delight Trot reached out and plucked a peach
from the bush and began to eat it, finding it delicious.  Cap'n Bill
was somewhat dazed at the girl's wish being granted so quickly, so
before he could pick a peach they had faded away and bananas took their
place.  "Grab one, Cap'n!" exclaimed Trot, and even while eating the
peach she seized a banana with her other hand and tore it from the bush.

The old sailor was still bewildered.  He put out a hand indeed, but he
was too late, for now the bananas disappeared and lemons took their
place.

"Pshaw!" cried Trot.  "You can't eat those things; but watch out,
Cap'n, for something else."

Cocoanuts next appeared, but Cap'n Bill shook his head.

"Ca'n't crack 'em," he remarked, "'cause we haven't anything handy to
smash 'em with."

"Well, take one, anyhow," advised Trot; but the cocoanuts were gone
now, and a deep, purple, pear-shaped fruit which was unknown to them
took their place.  Again Cap'n Bill hesitated, and Trot said to him:

"You ought to have captured a peach and a banana, as I did.  If you're
not careful, Cap'n, you'll miss all your chances.  Here, I'll divide my
banana with you."

Even as she spoke, the Magic Plant was covered with big red apples,
growing on every branch, and Cap'n Bill hesitated no longer.  He
grabbed with both hands and picked two apples, while Trot had only time
to secure one before they were gone.

"It's curious," remarked the sailor, munching his apple, "how these
fruits keep good when you've picked 'em, but dis'pear inter thin air if
they're left on the bush."

"The whole thing is curious," declared the girl, "and it couldn't exist
in any country but this, where magic is so common.  Those are limes.
Don't pick 'em, for they'd pucker up your mouth and--Ooo! here come
plums!" and she tucked her apple in her apron pocket and captured three
plums--each one almost as big as an egg--before they disappeared.
Cap'n Bill got some too, but both were too hungry to fast any longer,
so they began eating their apples and plums and let the magic bush bear
all sorts of fruits, one after another.  The Cap'n stopped once to pick
a fine cantaloupe, which he held under his arm, and Trot, having
finished her plums, got a handful of cherries and an orange; but when
almost every sort of fruit had appeared on the bush, the crop ceased
and only flowers, as before, bloomed upon it.

"I wonder why it changed back," mused Trot, who was not worried because
she had enough fruit to satisfy her hunger.

"Well, you only wished it would bear fruit 'for a while,'" said the
sailor, "and it did.  P'raps if you'd said 'forever,' Trot, it would
have always been fruit."

"But why should MY wish be obeyed?" asked the girl.  "I'm not a fairy
or a wizard or any kind of a magic-maker."

"I guess," replied Cap'n Bill, "that this little island is a magic
island, and any folks on it can tell the bush what to produce, an'
it'll produce it."

"Do you think I could wish for anything else, Cap'n and get it?" she
inquired anxiously.

"What are you thinkin' of, Trot?"

"I'm thinking of wishing that these roots on our feet would disappear,
and let us free."

"Try it, Trot."

So she tried it, and the wish had no effect whatever.

"Try it yourself, Cap'n," she suggested.

Then Cap'n Bill made the wish to be free, with no better result.

"No," said he, "it's no use; the wishes only affect the Magic Plant;
but I'm glad we can make it bear fruit, 'cause now we know we won't
starve before the Wizard gets to us."

"But I'm gett'n' tired standing here so long," complained the girl.
"If I could only lift one foot, and rest it, I'd feel better."

"Same with me, Trot.  I've noticed that if you've got to do a thing,
and can't help yourself, it gets to be a hardship mighty quick."

"Folks that can raise their feet don't appreciate what a blessing it
is," said Trot thoughtfully.  "I never knew before what fun it is to
raise one foot, an' then another, any time you feel like it."

"There's lots o' things folks don't 'preciate," replied the sailor-man.
"If somethin' would 'most stop your breath, you'd think breathin' easy
was the finest thing in life.  When a person's well, he don't realize
how jolly it is, but when he gets sick he 'members the time he was
well, an' wishes that time would come back.  Most folks forget to thank
God for givin' 'em two good legs, till they lose one o' 'em, like I
did; and then it's too late, 'cept to praise God for leavin' one."

"Your wooden leg ain't so bad, Cap'n," she remarked, looking at it
critically.  "Anyhow, it don't take root on a Magic Island, like our
meat legs do."

"I ain't complainin'," said Cap'n Bill.  "What's that swimmin' towards
us, Trot?" he added, looking over the Magic Flower and across the water.

The girl looked, too, and then she replied.

"It's a bird of some sort.  It's like a duck, only I never saw a duck
have so many colors."

The bird swam swiftly and gracefully toward the Magic Isle, and as it
drew nearer its gorgeously colored plumage astonished them.  The
feathers were of many hues of glistening greens and blues and purples,
and it had a yellow head with a red plume, and pink, white and violet
in its tail.  When it reached the Isle, it came ashore and approached
them, waddling slowly and turning its head first to one side and then
to the other, so as to see the girl and the sailor better.

"You're strangers," said the bird, coming to a halt near them, "and
you've been caught by the Magic Isle and made prisoners."

"Yes," returned Trot, with a sigh; "we're rooted.  But I hope we won't
grow."

"You'll grow small," said the Bird.  "You'll keep growing smaller every
day, until bye and bye there'll be nothing left of you.  That's the
usual way, on this Magic Isle."

"How do you know about it, and who are you, anyhow?" asked Cap'n Bill.

"I'm the Lonesome Duck," replied the bird.  "I suppose you've heard of
me?"

"No," said Trot, "I can't say I have.  What makes you lonesome?"

"Why, I haven't any family or any relations," returned the Duck.

"Haven't you any friends?"

"Not a friend.  And I've nothing to do.  I've lived a long time, and
I've got to live forever, because I belong in the Land of Oz, where no
living thing dies.  Think of existing year after year, with no friends,
no family, and nothing to do!  Can you wonder I'm lonesome?"

"Why don't you make a few friends, and find something to do?" inquired
Cap'n Bill.

"I can't make friends because everyone I meet--bird, beast, or
person--is disagreeable to me.  In a few minutes I shall be unable to
bear your society longer, and then I'll go away and leave you," said
the Lonesome Duck.  "And, as for doing anything, there's no use in it.
All I meet are doing something, so I have decided it's common and
uninteresting and I prefer to remain lonesome."

"Don't you have to hunt for your food?" asked Trot.

"No.  In my diamond palace, a little way up the river, food is
magically supplied me; but I seldom eat, because it is so common."

"You must be a Magician Duck," remarked Cap'n Bill.

"Why so?"

"Well, ordinary ducks don't have diamond palaces an' magic food, like
you do."

"True; and that's another reason why I'm lonesome.  You must remember
I'm the only Duck in the Land of Oz, and I'm not like any other duck in
the outside world."

"Seems to me you LIKE bein' lonesome," observed Cap'n Bill.

"I can't say I like it, exactly," replied the Duck, "but since it seems
to be my fate, I'm rather proud of it."

"How do you s'pose a single, solitary Duck happened to be in the Land
of Oz?" asked Trot, wonderingly.

"I used to know the reason, many years ago, but I've quite forgotten
it," declared the Duck.  "The reason for a thing is never so important
as the thing itself, so there's no use remembering anything but the
fact that I'm lonesome."

"I guess you'd be happier if you tried to do something," asserted Trot.
"If you can't do anything for yourself, you can do things for others,
and then you'd get lots of friends and stop being lonesome."

"Now you're getting disagreeable," said the Lonesome Duck, "and I shall
have to go and leave you."

"Can't you help us any," pleaded the girl.  "If there's anything magic
about you, you might get us out of this scrape."

"I haven't any magic strong enough to get you off the Magic Isle,"
replied the Lonesome Duck.  "What magic I possess is very simple, but I
find it enough for my own needs."

"If we could only sit down a while, we could stand it better," said
Trot, "but we have nothing to sit on."

"Then you will have to stand it," said the Lonesome Duck.

"P'raps you've enough magic to give us a couple of stools," suggested
Cap'n Bill.

"A duck isn't supposed to know what stools are," was the reply.

"But you're diff'rent from all other ducks."

"That is true."  The strange creature seemed to reflect for a moment,
looking at them sharply from its round black eyes.  Then it said:
"Sometimes, when the sun is hot, I grow a toadstool to shelter me from
its rays.  Perhaps you could sit on toadstools."

"Well, if they were strong enough, they'd do," answered Cap'n Bill.

"Then, before I do I'll give you a couple," said the Lonesome Duck, and
began waddling about in a small circle.  It went around the circle to
the right three times, and then it went around to the left three times.
Then it hopped backward three times and forward three times.

"What are you doing?" asked Trot.

"Don't interrupt.  This is an incantation," replied the Lonesome Duck,
but now it began making a succession of soft noises that sounded like
quacks and seemed to mean nothing at all.  And it kept up these sounds
so long that Trot finally exclaimed:

"Can't you hurry up and finish that 'cantation?  If it takes all summer
to make a couple of toadstools, you're not much of a magician."

"I told you not to interrupt," said the Lonesome Duck, sternly.  "If
you get TOO disagreeable, you'll drive me away before I finish this
incantation."

Trot kept quiet, after the rebuke, and the Duck resumed the quacky
muttering.  Cap'n Bill chuckled a little to himself and remarked to
Trot in a whisper: "For a bird that ain't got anything to do, this
Lonesome Duck is makin' consider'ble fuss.  An' I ain't sure, after
all, as toadstools would be worth sittin' on."

Even as he spoke, the sailor-man felt something touch him from behind
and, turning his head, he found a big toadstool in just the right place
and of just the right size to sit upon.  There was one behind Trot,
too, and with a cry of pleasure the little girl sank back upon it and
found it a very comfortable seat--solid, yet almost like a cushion.
Even Cap'n Bill's weight did not break his toadstool down, and when
both were seated, they found that the Lonesome Duck had waddled away
and was now at the water's edge.

"Thank you, ever so much!" cried Trot, and the sailor called out: "Much
obliged!"

But the Lonesome Duck paid no attention.  Without even looking in their
direction again, the gaudy fowl entered the water and swam gracefully
away.




16.  The Glass Cat Finds the Black Bag


When the six monkeys were transformed by Kiki Aru into six giant
soldiers fifty feet tall, their heads came above the top of the trees,
which in this part of the forest were not so high as in some other
parts; and, although the trees were somewhat scattered, the bodies of
the giant soldiers were so big that they quite filled the spaces in
which they stood and the branches pressed them on every side.

Of course, Kiki was foolish to have made his soldiers so big, for now
they could not get out of the forest.  Indeed, they could not stir a
step, but were imprisoned by the trees.  Even had they been in the
little clearing they could not have made their way out of it, but they
were a little beyond the clearing.  At first, the other monkeys who had
not been enchanted were afraid of the soldiers, and hastily quitted the
place; but soon finding that the great men stood stock still, although
grunting indignantly at their transformation, the band of monkeys
returned to the spot and looked at them curiously, not guessing that
they were really monkeys and their own friends.

The soldiers couldn't see them, their heads being above the trees; they
could not even raise their arms or draw their sharp swords, so closely
were they held by the leafy branches.  So the monkeys, finding the
giants helpless, began climbing up their bodies, and presently all the
band were perched on the shoulders of the giants and peering into their
faces.

"I'm Ebu, your father," cried one soldier to a monkey who had perched
upon his left ear, "but some cruel person has enchanted me."

"I'm your Uncle Peeker," said another soldier to another monkey.

So, very soon all the monkeys knew the truth and were sorry for their
friends and relations and angry at the person--whoever it was--who had
transformed them.  There was a great chattering among the tree-tops,
and the noise attracted other monkeys, so that the clearing and all the
trees around were full of them.

Rango the Gray Ape, who was the Chief of all the monkey tribes of the
forest, heard the uproar and came to see what was wrong with his
people.  And Rango, being wiser and more experienced, at once knew that
the strange magician who looked like a mixed-up beast was responsible
for the transformations.  He realized that the six giant soldiers were
helpless prisoners, because of their size, and knew he was powerless to
release them.  So, although he feared to meet the terrible magician, he
hurried away to the Great Clearing to tell Gugu the King what had
happened and to try to find the Wizard of Oz and get him to save his
six enchanted subjects.

Rango darted into the Great Clearing just as the Wizard had restored
all the enchanted ones around him to their proper shapes, and the Gray
Ape was glad to hear that the wicked magician-beast had been conquered.

"But now, O mighty Wizard, you must come with me to where six of my
people are transformed into six great giant men," he said, "for if they
are allowed to remain there, their happiness and their future lives
will be ruined."

The Wizard did not reply at once, for he was thinking this a good
opportunity to win Rango's consent to his taking some monkeys to the
Emerald City for Ozma's birthday cake.

"It is a great thing you ask of me, O Rango the Gray Ape," said he,
"for the bigger the giants are the more powerful their enchantment, and
the more difficult it will be to restore them to their natural forms.
However, I will think it over."

Then the Wizard went to another part of the clearing and sat on a log
and appeared to be in deep thought.

The Glass Cat had been greatly interested in the Gray Ape's story and
was curious to see what the giant soldiers looked like.  Hearing that
their heads extended above the tree-tops, the Glass Cat decided that if
it climbed the tall avocado tree that stood at the side of the
clearing, it might be able to see the giants' heads.  So, without
mentioning her errand, the crystal creature went to the tree and, by
sticking her sharp glass claws in the bark, easily climbed the tree to
its very top and, looking over the forest, saw the six giant heads,
although they were now a long way off.  It was, indeed, a remarkable
sight, for the huge heads had immense soldier caps on them, with red
and yellow plumes and looked very fierce and terrible, although the
monkey hearts of the giants were at that moment filled with fear.

Having satisfied her curiosity, the Glass Cat began to climb down from
the tree more slowly.  Suddenly she discerned the Wizard's black bag
hanging from a limb of the tree.  She grasped the black bag in her
glass teeth, and although it was rather heavy for so small an animal,
managed to get it free and to carry it safely down to the ground.  Then
she looked around for the Wizard and seeing him seated upon the stump
she hid the black bag among some leaves and then went over to where the
Wizard sat.

"I forgot to tell you," said the Glass Cat, "that Trot and Cap'n Bill
are in trouble, and I came here to hunt you up and get you to go and
rescue them."

"Good gracious, Cat!  Why didn't you tell me before?" exclaimed the
Wizard.

"For the reason that I found so much excitement here that I forgot Trot
and Cap'n Bill."

"What's wrong with them?" asked the Wizard.

Then the Glass Cat explained how they had gone to get the Magic Flower
for Ozma's birthday gift and had been trapped by the magic of the queer
island.  The Wizard was really alarmed, but he shook his head and said
sadly:

"I'm afraid I can't help my dear friends, because I've lost my black
bag."

"If I find it, will you go to them?" asked the creature.

"Of course," replied the Wizard.  "But I do not think that a Glass Cat
with nothing but pink brains can succeed when all the rest of us have
failed."

"Don't you admire my pink brains?" demanded the Cat.

"They're pretty," admitted the Wizard, "but they're not regular brains,
you know, and so we don't expect them to amount to much."

"But if I find your black bag--and find it inside of five minutes--will
you admit my pink brains are better than your common human brains?"

"Well, I'll admit they're better HUNTERS," said the Wizard,
reluctantly, "but you can't do it.  We've searched everywhere, and the
black bag isn't to be found."

"That shows how much you know!" retorted the Glass Cat, scornfully.
"Watch my brains a minute, and see them whirl around."

The Wizard watched, for he was anxious to regain his black bag, and the
pink brains really did whirl around in a remarkable manner.

"Now, come with me," commanded the Glass Cat, and led the Wizard
straight to the spot where it had covered the bag with leaves.
"According to my brains," said the creature, "your black bag ought to
be here."

Then it scratched at the leaves and uncovered the bag, which the Wizard
promptly seized with a cry of delight.  Now that he had regained his
Magic Tools, he felt confident he could rescue Trot and Cap'n Bill.

Rango the Gray Ape was getting impatient.  He now approached the Wizard
and said:

"Well, what do you intend to do about those poor enchanted monkeys?"

"I'll make a bargain with you, Rango," replied the little man.  "If you
will let me take a dozen of your monkeys to the Emerald City, and keep
them until after Ozma's birthday, I'll break the enchantment of the six
Giant Soldiers and return them to their natural forms."

But the Gray Ape shook his head.

"I can't do it," he declared.  "The monkeys would be very lonesome and
unhappy in the Emerald City and your people would tease them and throw
stones at them, which would cause them to fight and bite."

"The people won't see them till Ozma's birthday dinner," promised the
Wizard.  "I'll make them very small--about four inches high, and I'll
keep them in a pretty cage in my own room, where they will be safe from
harm.  I'll feed them the nicest kind of food, train them to do some
clever tricks, and on Ozma's birthday I'll hide the twelve little
monkeys inside a cake.  When Ozma cuts the cake the monkeys will jump
out on to the table and do their tricks.  The next day I will bring
them back to the forest and make them big as ever, and they'll have
some exciting stories to tell their friends.  What do you say, Rango?"

"I say no!" answered the Gray Ape.  "I won't have my monkeys enchanted
and made to do tricks for the Oz people."

"Very well," said the Wizard calmly; "then I'll go.  Come, Dorothy," he
called to the little girl, "let's start on our journey."

"Aren't you going to save those six monkeys who are giant soldiers?"
asked Rango, anxiously.

"Why should I?" returned the Wizard.  "If you will not do me the favor
I ask, you cannot expect me to favor you."

"Wait a minute," said the Gray Ape.  "I've changed my mind.  If you
will treat the twelve monkeys nicely and bring them safely back to the
forest, I'll let you take them."

"Thank you," replied the Wizard, cheerfully.  "We'll go at once and
save those giant soldiers."

So all the party left the clearing and proceeded to the place where the
giants still stood among the trees.  Hundreds of monkeys, apes, baboons
and orangoutangs had gathered round, and their wild chatter could be
heard a mile away.  But the Gray Ape soon hushed the babel of sounds,
and the Wizard lost no time in breaking the enchantments.  First one
and then another giant soldier disappeared and became an ordinary
monkey again, and the six were shortly returned to their friends in
their proper forms.

This action made the Wizard very popular with the great army of
monkeys, and when the Gray Ape announced that the Wizard wanted to
borrow twelve monkeys to take to the Emerald City for a couple of
weeks, and asked for volunteers, nearly a hundred offered to go, so
great was their confidence in the little man who had saved their
comrades.

The Wizard selected a dozen that  seemed intelligent and good-tempered,
and then he opened his black bag and took out a queerly shaped dish
that was silver on the outside and gold on the inside.  Into this dish
he poured a powder and set fire to it.  It made a thick smoke that
quite enveloped the twelve monkeys, as well as the form of the Wizard,
but when the smoke cleared away the dish had been changed to a golden
cage with silver bars, and the twelve monkeys had become about three
inches high and were all seated comfortably inside the cage.

The thousands of hairy animals who had witnessed this act of magic were
much astonished and applauded the Wizard by barking aloud and shaking
the limbs of the trees in which they sat.  Dorothy said: "That was a
fine trick, Wizard!" and the Gray Ape remarked: "You are certainly the
most wonderful magician in all the Land of Oz!"

"Oh, no," modestly replied the little man.  "Glinda's magic is better
than mine, but mine seems good enough to use on ordinary occasions.
And now, Rango, we will say good-bye, and I promise to return your
monkeys as happy and safe as they are now."

The Wizard rode on the back of the Hungry Tiger and carried the cage of
monkeys very carefully, so as not to joggle them.  Dorothy rode on the
back of the Cowardly Lion, and the Glass Cat trotted, as before, to
show them the way.

Gugu the King crouched upon a log and watched them go, but as he bade
them farewell, the enormous Leopard said:

"I know now that you are the friends of beasts and that the forest
people may trust you.  Whenever the Wizard of Oz and Princess Dorothy
enter the Forest of Gugu hereafter, they will be as welcome and as safe
with us as ever they are in the Emerald City."




17.  A Remarkable Journey


"You see," explained the Glass Cat, "that Magic Isle where Trot and
Cap'n Bill are stuck is also in this Gillikin Country--over at the east
side of it, and it's no farther to go across-lots from here than it is
from here to the Emerald City.  So we'll save time by cutting across
the mountains."

"Are you sure you know the way?" asked Dorothy.

"I know all the Land of Oz better than any other living creature knows
it," asserted the Glass Cat.

"Go ahead, then, and guide us," said the Wizard.  "We've left our poor
friends helpless too long already, and the sooner we rescue them the
happier they'll be."

"Are you sure you can get 'em out of their fix?" the little girl
inquired.

"I've no doubt of it," the Wizard assured her.  "But I can't tell what
sort of magic I must use until I get to the place and discover just how
they are enchanted."

"I've heard of that Magic Isle where the Wonderful Flower grows,"
remarked the Cowardly Lion.  "Long ago, when I used to live in the
forests, the beasts told stories about the Isle and how the Magic
Flower was placed there to entrap strangers--men or beasts."

"Is the Flower really wonderful?" questioned Dorothy.

"I have heard it is the most beautiful plant in the world," answered
the Lion.  "I have never seen it myself, but friendly beasts have told
me that they have stood on the shore of the river and looked across at
the plant in the gold flower-pot and seen hundreds of flowers, of all
sorts and sizes, blossom upon it in quick succession.  It is said that
if one picks the flowers while they are in bloom they will remain
perfect for a long time, but if they are not picked they soon disappear
and are replaced by other flowers.  That, in my opinion, make the Magic
Plant the most wonderful in existence."

"But these are only stories," said the girl.  "Has any of your friends
ever picked a flower from the wonderful plant?"

"No," admitted the Cowardly Lion, "for if any living thing ventures
upon the Magic Isle, where the golden flower-pot stands, that man or
beast takes root in the soil and cannot get away again."

"What happens to them, then?" asked Dorothy.

"They grow smaller, hour by hour and day by day, and finally disappear
entirely."

"Then," said the girl anxiously, "we must hurry up, or Cap'n Bill an'
Trot will get too small to be comf'table."

They were proceeding at a rapid pace during this conversation, for the
Hungry Tiger and the Cowardly Lion were obliged to move swiftly in
order to keep pace with the Glass Cat.  After leaving the Forest of
Gugu they crossed a mountain range, and then a broad plain, after which
they reached another forest, much smaller than that where Gugu ruled.

"The Magic Isle is in this forest," said the Glass Cat, "but the river
is at the other side of the forest.  There is no path through the
trees, but if we keep going east, we will find the river, and then it
will be easy to find the Magic Isle."

"Have you ever traveled this way before?" inquired the Wizard.

"Not exactly," admitted the Cat, "but I know we shall reach the river
if we go east through the forest."

"Lead on, then," said the Wizard.

The Glass Cat started away, and at first it was easy to pass between
the trees; but before long the underbrush and vines became thick and
tangled, and after pushing their way through these obstacles for a
time, our travelers came to a place where even the Glass Cat could not
push through.

"We'd better go back and find a path," suggested the Hungry Tiger.

"I'm s'prised at you," said Dorothy, eyeing the Glass Cat severely.

"I'm surprised, myself," replied the Cat.  "But it's a long way around
the forest to where the river enters it, and I thought we could save
time by going straight through."

"No one can blame you," said the Wizard, "and I think, instead of
turning back, I can make a path that will allow us to proceed."

He opened his black bag and after searching among his magic tools drew
out a small axe, made of some metal so highly polished that it
glittered brightly even in the dark forest.  The Wizard laid the little
axe on the ground and said in a commanding voice:

  "Chop, Little Axe, chop clean and true;
  A path for our feet you must quickly hew.
  Chop till this tangle of jungle is passed;
  Chop to the east, Little Axe--chop fast!"


Then the little axe began to move and flashed its bright blade right
and left, clearing a way through vine and brush and scattering the
tangled barrier so quickly that the Lion and the Tiger, carrying
Dorothy and the Wizard and the cage of monkeys on their backs, were
able to stride through the forest at a fast walk.  The brush seemed to
melt away before them and the little axe chopped so fast that their
eyes only saw a twinkling of the blade.  Then, suddenly, the forest was
open again, and the little axe, having obeyed its orders, lay still
upon the ground.

The Wizard picked up the magic axe and after carefully wiping it with
his silk handkerchief put it away in his black bag.  Then they went on
and in a short time reached the river.

"Let me see," said the Glass Cat, looking up and down the stream, "I
think we are below the Magic Isle; so we must go up the stream until we
come to it."

So up the stream they traveled, walking comfortably on the river bank,
and after a while the water broadened and a sharp bend appeared in the
river, hiding all below from their view.  They walked briskly along,
however, and had nearly reached the bend when a voice cried warningly:
"Look out!"

The travelers halted abruptly and the Wizard said: "Look out for what?"

"You almost stepped on my Diamond Palace," replied the voice, and a
duck with gorgeously colored feathers appeared before them.  "Beasts
and men are terribly clumsy," continued the Duck in an irritated tone,
"and you've no business on this side of the River, anyway.  What are
you doing here?"

"We've come to rescue some friends of ours who are stuck fast on the
Magic Isle in this river," explained Dorothy.

"I know 'em," said the Duck.  "I've been to see 'em, and they're stuck
fast, all right.  You may as well go back home, for no power can save
them."

"This is the Wonderful Wizard of Oz," said Dorothy, pointing to the
little man.

"Well, I'm the Lonesome Duck," was the reply, as the fowl strutted up
and down to show its feathers to best advantage.  "I'm the great Forest
Magician, as any beast can tell you, but even I have no power to
destroy the dreadful charm of the Magic Isle."

"Are you lonesome because you're a magician?" inquired Dorothy.

"No; I'm lonesome because I have no family and no friends.  But I like
to be lonesome, so please don't offer to be friendly with me.  Go away,
and try not to step on my Diamond Palace."

"Where is it?" asked the girl.

"Behind this bush."

Dorothy hopped off the lion's back and ran around the bush to see the
Diamond Palace of the Lonesome Duck, although the gaudy fowl protested
in a series of low quacks.  The girl found, indeed, a glistening dome
formed of clearest diamonds, neatly cemented together, with a doorway
at the side just big enough to admit the duck.

"Where did you find so many diamonds?" asked Dorothy, wonderingly.

"I know a place in the mountains where they are thick as pebbles," said
the Lonesome Duck, "and I brought them here in my bill, one by one and
put them in the river and let the water run over them until they were
brightly polished.  Then I built this palace, and I'm positive it's the
only Diamond Palace in all the world."

"It's the only one I know of," said the little girl; "but if you live
in it all alone, I don't see why it's any better than a wooden palace,
or one of bricks or cobble-stones."

"You're not supposed to understand that," retorted the Lonesome Duck.
"But I might tell you, as a matter of education, that a home of any
sort should be beautiful to those who live in it, and should not be
intended to please strangers.  The Diamond Palace is my home, and I
like it.  So I don't care a quack whether YOU like it or not."

"Oh, but I do!" exclaimed Dorothy.  "It's lovely on the outside, but--"
Then she stopped speaking, for the Lonesome Duck had entered his palace
through the little door without even saying good-bye.  So Dorothy
returned to her friends and they resumed their journey.

"Do you think, Wizard, the Duck was right in saying no magic can rescue
Trot and Cap'n Bill?" asked the girl in a worried tone of voice.

"No, I don't think the Lonesome Duck was right in saying that,"
answered the Wizard, gravely, "but it is possible that their
enchantment will be harder to overcome than I expected.  I'll do my
best, of course, and no one can do more than his best."

That didn't entirely relieve Dorothy's anxiety, but she said nothing
more, and soon, on turning the bend in the river, they came in sight of
the Magic Isle.

"There they are!" exclaimed Dorothy eagerly.

"Yes, I see them," replied the Wizard, nodding.  "They are sitting on
two big toadstools."

"That's queer," remarked the Glass Cat.  "There were no toadstools
there when I left them."

"What a lovely flower!" cried Dorothy in rapture, as her gaze fell on
the Magic Plant.

"Never mind the Flower, just now," advised the Wizard.  "The most
important thing is to rescue our friends."

By this time they had arrived at a place just opposite the Magic Isle,
and now both Trot and Cap'n Bill saw the arrival of their friends and
called to them for help.

"How are you?" shouted the Wizard, putting his hands to his mouth so
they could hear him better across the water.

"We're in hard luck," shouted Cap'n Bill, in reply.  "We're anchored
here and can't move till you find a way to cut the hawser."

"What does he mean by that?" asked Dorothy.

"We can't move our feet a bit!" called Trot, speaking as loud as she
could.

"Why not?" inquired Dorothy.

"They've got roots on 'em," explained Trot.

It was hard to talk from so great a distance, so the Wizard said to the
Glass Cat:

"Go to the island and tell our friends to be patient, for we have come
to save them.  It may take a little time to release them, for the Magic
of the Isle is new to me and I shall have to experiment.  But tell them
I'll hurry as fast as I can."

So the Glass Cat walked across the river under the water to tell Trot
and Cap'n Bill not to worry, and the Wizard at once opened his black
bag and began to make his preparations.




18.  The Magic of the Wizard


He first set up a small silver tripod and placed a gold basin at the
top of it.  Into this basin he put two powders--a pink one and a
sky-blue one--and poured over them a yellow liquid from a crystal vial.
Then he mumbled some magic words, and the powders began to sizzle and
burn and send out a cloud of violet smoke that floated across the river
and completely enveloped both Trot and Cap'n Bill, as well as the
toadstools on which they sat, and even the Magic Plant in the gold
flower-pot.  Then, after the smoke had disappeared into air, the Wizard
called out to the prisoners:

"Are you free?"

Both Trot and Cap'n Bill tried to move their feet and failed.

"No!" they shouted in answer.

The Wizard rubbed his bald head thoughtfully and then took some other
magic tools from the bag.

First he placed a little black ball in a silver pistol and shot it
toward the Magic Isle.  The ball exploded just over the head of Trot
and scattered a thousand sparks over the little girl.

"Oh!" said the Wizard, "I guess that will set her free."

But Trot's feet were still rooted in the ground of the Magic Isle, and
the disappointed Wizard had to try something else.

For almost an hour he worked hard, using almost every magic tool in his
black bag, and still Cap'n Bill and Trot were not rescued.

"Dear me!" exclaimed Dorothy, "I'm 'fraid we'll have to go to Glinda,
after all."

That made the little Wizard blush, for it shamed him to think that his
magic was not equal to that of the Magic Isle.

"I won't give up yet, Dorothy," he said, "for I know a lot of wizardry
that I haven't yet tried.  I don't know what magician enchanted this
little island, or what his powers were, but I DO know that I can break
any enchantment known to the ordinary witches and magicians that used
to inhabit the Land of Oz.  It's like unlocking a door; all you need is
to find the right key."

"But 'spose you haven't the right key with you." suggested Dorothy;
"what then?"

"Then we'll have to make the key," he answered.

The Glass Cat now came back to their side of the river, walking under
the water, and said to the Wizard: "They're getting frightened over
there on the island because they're both growing smaller every minute.
Just now, when I left them, both Trot and Cap'n Bill were only about
half their natural sizes."

"I think," said the Wizard reflectively, "that I'd better go to the
shore of the island, where I can talk to them and work to better
advantage.  How did Trot and Cap'n Bill get to the island?"

"On a raft," answered the Glass Cat.  "It's over there now on the
beach."

"I suppose you're not strong enough to bring the raft to this side, are
you?"

"No; I couldn't move it an inch," said the Cat.

"I'll try to get it for you," volunteered the Cowardly Lion.  "I'm
dreadfully scared for fear the Magic Isle will capture me, too; but
I'll try to get the raft and bring it to this side for you."

"Thank you, my friend," said the Wizard.

So the Lion plunged into the river and swam with powerful strokes
across to where the raft was beached upon the island.  Placing one paw
on the raft, he turned and struck out with his other three legs and so
strong was the great beast that he managed to drag the raft from off
the beach and propel it slowly to where the Wizard stood on the river
bank.

"Good!" exclaimed the little man, well pleased.

"May I go across with you?" asked Dorothy.

The Wizard hesitated.

"If you'll take care not to leave the raft or step foot on the island,
you'll be quite safe," he decided.  So the Wizard told the Hungry Tiger
and the Cowardly Lion to guard the cage of monkeys until he returned,
and then he and Dorothy got upon the raft.  The paddle which Cap'n Bill
had made was still there, so the little Wizard paddled the clumsy raft
across the water and ran it upon the beach of the Magic Isle as close
to the place where Cap'n Bill and Trot were rooted as he could.

Dorothy was shocked to see how small the prisoners had become, and Trot
said to her friends: "If you can't save us soon, there'll be nothing
left of us."

"Be patient, my dear," counseled the Wizard, and took the little axe
from his black bag.

"What are you going to do with that?" asked Cap'n Bill.

"It's a magic axe," replied the Wizard, "and when I tell it to chop, it
will chop those roots from your feet and you can run to the raft before
they grow again."

"Don't!" shouted the sailor in alarm.  "Don't do it!  Those roots are
all flesh roots, and our bodies are feeding 'em while they're growing
into the ground."

"To cut off the roots," said Trot, "would be like cutting off our
fingers and toes."

The Wizard put the little axe back in the black bag and took out a pair
of silver pincers.

"Grow--grow--grow!" he said to the pincers, and at once they grew and
extended until they reached from the raft to the prisoners.

"What are you going to do now?" demanded Cap'n Bill, fearfully eyeing
the pincers.

"This magic tool will pull you up, roots and all, and land you on this
raft," declared the Wizard.

"Don't do it!" pleaded the sailor, with a shudder.  "It would hurt us
awfully."

"It would be just like pulling teeth to pull us up by the roots,"
explained Trot.

"Grow small!" said the Wizard to the pincers, and at once they became
small and he threw them into the black bag.

"I guess, friends, it's all up with us, this time," remarked Cap'n
Bill, with a dismal sigh.

"Please tell Ozma, Dorothy," said Trot, "that we got into trouble
trying to get her a nice birthday present.  Then she'll forgive us.
The Magic Flower is lovely and wonderful, but it's just a lure to catch
folks on this dreadful island and then destroy them.  You'll have a
nice birthday party, without us, I'm sure; and I hope, Dorothy, that
none of you in the Emerald City will forget me--or dear ol' Cap'n Bill."




19.  Dorothy and the Bumble Bees


Dorothy was greatly distressed and had hard work to keep the tears from
her eyes.

"Is that all you can do, Wizard?" she asked the little man.

"It's all I can think of just now," he replied sadly.  "But I intend to
keep on thinking as long--as long--well, as long as thinking will do
any good."

They were all silent for a time, Dorothy and the Wizard sitting
thoughtfully on the raft, and Trot and Cap'n Bill sitting thoughtfully
on the toadstools and growing gradually smaller and smaller in size.

Suddenly Dorothy said: "Wizard, I've thought of something!"

"What have you thought of?" he asked, looking at the little girl with
interest.

"Can you remember the Magic Word that transforms people?" she asked.

"Of course," said he.

"Then you can transform Trot and Cap'n Bill into birds or bumblebees,
and they can fly away to the other shore.  When they're there, you can
transform 'em into their reg'lar shapes again!"

"Can you do that, Wizard?" asked Cap'n Bill, eagerly.

"I think so."

"Roots an' all?" inquired Trot.

"Why, the roots are now a part of you, and if you were transformed to a
bumblebee the whole of you would be transformed, of course, and you'd
be free of this awful island."

"All right; do it!" cried the sailor-man.

So the Wizard said slowly and distinctly:

"I want Trot and Cap'n Bill to become bumblebees--Pyrzqxgl!"

Fortunately, he pronounced the Magic Word in the right way, and
instantly Trot and Cap'n Bill vanished from view, and up from the
places where they had been flew two bumblebees.

"Hooray!" shouted Dorothy in delight; "they're saved!"

"I guess they are," agreed the Wizard, equally delighted.

The bees hovered over the raft an instant and then flew across the
river to where the Lion and the Tiger waited.  The Wizard picked up the
paddle and paddled the raft across as fast as he could.  When it
reached the river bank, both Dorothy and the Wizard leaped ashore and
the little man asked excitedly:

"Where are the bees?"

"The bees?" inquired the Lion, who was half asleep and did not know
what had happened on the Magic Isle.

"Yes; there were two of them."

"Two bees?" said the Hungry Tiger, yawning.  "Why, I ate one of them
and the Cowardly Lion ate the other."

"Goodness gracious!" cried Dorothy horrified.

"It was little enough for our lunch," remarked the Tiger, "but the bees
were the only things we could find."

"How dreadful!" wailed Dorothy, wringing her hands in despair.  "You've
eaten Trot and Cap'n Bill."

But just then she heard a buzzing overhead and two bees alighted on her
shoulder.

"Here we are," said a small voice in her ear.  "I'm Trot, Dorothy."

"And I'm Cap'n Bill," said the other bee.

Dorothy almost fainted, with relief, and the Wizard, who was close by
and had heard the tiny voices, gave a laugh and said:

"You are not the only two bees in the forest, it seems, but I advise
you to keep away from the Lion and the Tiger until you regain your
proper forms."

"Do it now, Wizard!" advised Dorothy.  "They're so small that you never
can tell what might happen to 'em."

So the Wizard gave the command and pronounced the Magic Word, and in
the instant Trot and Cap'n Bill stood beside them as natural as before
they had met their fearful adventure.  For they were no longer small in
size, because the Wizard had transformed them from bumblebees into the
shapes and sizes that nature had formerly given them.  The ugly roots
on their feet had disappeared with the transformation.

While Dorothy was hugging Trot, and Trot was softly crying because she
was so happy, the Wizard shook hands with Cap'n Bill and congratulated
him on his escape.  The old sailor-man was so pleased that he also
shook the Lion's paw and took off his hat and bowed politely to the
cage of monkeys.

Then Cap'n Bill did a curious thing.  He went to a big tree and, taking
out his knife, cut away a big, broad piece of thick bark.  Then he sat
down on the ground and after taking a roll of stout cord from his
pocket--which seemed to be full of all sorts of things--he proceeded to
bind the flat piece of bark to the bottom of his good foot, over the
leather sole.

"What's that for?" inquired the Wizard.

"I hate to be stumped," replied the sailor-man; "so I'm goin' back to
that island."

"And get enchanted again?" exclaimed Trot, with evident disapproval.

"No; this time I'll dodge the magic of the island.  I noticed that my
wooden leg didn't get stuck, or take root, an' neither did the glass
feet of the Glass Cat.  It's only a thing that's made of meat--like man
an' beasts--that the magic can hold an' root to the ground.  Our shoes
are leather, an' leather comes from a beast's hide.  Our stockin's are
wool, an' wool comes from a sheep's back.  So, when we walked on the
Magic Isle, our feet took root there an' held us fast.  But not my
wooden leg.  So now I'll put a wooden bottom on my other foot an' the
magic can't stop me."

"But why do you wish to go back to the island?" asked Dorothy.

"Didn't you see the Magic Flower in the gold flower-pot?" returned
Cap'n Bill.

"Of course I saw it, and it's lovely and wonderful."

"Well, Trot an' I set out to get the magic plant for a present to Ozma
on her birthday, and I mean to get it an' take it back with us to the
Emerald City."

"That would be fine," cried Trot eagerly, "if you think you can do it,
and it would be safe to try!"

"I'm pretty sure it is safe, the way I've fixed my foot," said the
sailor, "an' if I SHOULD happen to get caught, I s'pose the Wizard
could save me again."

"I suppose I could," agreed the Wizard.  "Anyhow, if you wish to try
it, Cap'n Bill, go ahead and we'll stand by and watch what happens."

So the sailor-man got upon the raft again and paddled over to the Magic
Isle, landing as close to the golden flower-pot as he could.  They
watched him walk across the land, put both arms around the flower-pot
and lift it easily from its place.  Then he carried it to the raft and
set it down very gently.  The removal did not seem to affect the Magic
Flower in any way, for it was growing daffodils when Cap'n Bill picked
it up and on the way to the raft it grew tulips and gladioli.  During
the time the sailor was paddling across the river to where his friends
awaited him, seven different varieties of flowers bloomed in succession
on the plant.

"I guess the Magician who put it on the island never thought that any
one would carry it off," said Dorothy.

"He figured that only men would want the plant, and any man who went
upon the island to get it would be caught by the enchantment," added
the Wizard.

"After this," remarked Trot, "no one will care to go on the island, so
it won't be a trap any more."

"There," exclaimed Cap'n Bill, setting down the Magic Plant in triumph
upon the river bank, "if Ozma gets a better birthday present than that,
I'd like to know what it can be!"

"It'll s'prise her, all right," declared Dorothy, standing in awed
wonder before the gorgeous blossoms and watching them change from
yellow roses to violets.

"It'll s'prise ev'rybody in the Em'rald City," Trot asserted in glee,
"and it'll be Ozma's present from Cap'n Bill and me."

"I think I ought to have a little credit," objected the Glass Cat.  "I
discovered the thing, and led you to it, and brought the Wizard here to
save you when you got caught."

"That's true," admitted Trot, "and I'll tell Ozma the whole story, so
she'll know how good you've been."




20.  The Monkeys Have Trouble


"Now," said the Wizard, "we must start for home.  But how are we going
to carry that big gold flower-pot?  Cap'n Bill can't lug it all the
way, that's certain."

"No," acknowledged the sailor-man; "it's pretty heavy.  I could carry
it for a little while, but I'd have to stop to rest every few minutes."

"Couldn't we put it on your back?" Dorothy asked the Cowardly Lion,
with a good-natured yawn.

"I don't object to carrying it, if you can fasten it on," answered the
Lion.

"If it falls off," said Trot, "it might get smashed an' be ruined."

"I'll fix it," promised Cap'n Bill.  "I'll make a flat board out of one
of these tree trunks, an' tie the board on the lion's back, an' set the
flower-pot on the board."  He set to work at once to do this, but as he
only had his big knife for a tool his progress was slow.

So the Wizard took from his black bag a tiny saw that shone like silver
and said to it:

  "Saw, Little Saw, come show your power;
  Make us a board for the Magic Flower."


And at once the Little Saw began to move and it sawed the log so fast
that those who watched it work were astonished.  It seemed to
understand, too, just what the board was to be used for, for when it
was completed it was flat on top and hollowed beneath in such a manner
that it exactly fitted the Lion's back.

"That beats whittlin'!" exclaimed Cap'n Bill, admiringly.  "You don't
happen to have TWO o' them saws; do you, Wizard?"

"No," replied the Wizard, wiping the Magic Saw carefully with his silk
handkerchief and putting it back in the black bag.  "It's the only saw
of its kind in the world; and if there were more like it, it wouldn't
be so wonderful."

They now tied the board on the Lion's back, flat side up, and Cap'n
Bill carefully placed the Magic Flower on the board.

"For fear o' accidents," he said, "I'll walk beside the Lion and hold
onto the flower-pot."

Trot and Dorothy could both ride on the back of the Hungry Tiger, and
between them they carried the cage of monkeys.  But this arrangement
left the Wizard, as well as the sailor, to make the journey on foot,
and so the procession moved slowly and the Glass Cat grumbled because
it would take so long to get to the Emerald City.

The Cat was sour-tempered and grumpy, at first, but before they had
journeyed far, the crystal creature had discovered a fine amusement.
The long tails of the monkeys were constantly sticking through the bars
of their cage, and when they did, the Glass Cat would slyly seize the
tails in her paws and pull them.  That made the monkeys scream, and
their screams pleased the Glass Cat immensely.  Trot and Dorothy tried
to stop this naughty amusement, but when they were not looking the Cat
would pull the tails again, and the creature was so sly and quick that
the monkeys could seldom escape.  They scolded the Cat angrily and
shook the bars of their cage, but they could not get out and the Cat
only laughed at them.

After the party had left the forest and were on the plains of the
Munchkin Country, it grew dark, and they were obliged to make camp for
the night, choosing a pretty place beside a brook.  By means of his
magic the Wizard created three tents, pitched in a row on the grass and
nicely fitted with all that was needful for the comfort of his
comrades.  The middle tent was for Dorothy and Trot, and had in it two
cosy white beds and two chairs.  Another tent, also with beds and
chairs, was for the Wizard and Cap'n Bill, while the third tent was for
the Hungry Tiger, the Cowardly Lion, the cage of Monkeys and the Glass
Cat.  Outside the tents the Wizard made a fire and placed over it a
magic kettle from which he presently drew all sorts of nice things for
their supper, smoking hot.

After they had eaten and talked together for a while under the
twinkling stars, they all went to bed and the people were soon asleep.
The Lion and the Tiger had almost fallen asleep, too, when they were
roused by the screams of the monkeys, for the Glass Cat was pulling
their tails again.  Annoyed by the uproar, the Hungry Tiger cried:
"Stop that racket!" and getting sight of the Glass Cat, he raised his
big paw and struck at the creature.  The cat was quick enough to dodge
the blow, but the claws of the Hungry Tiger scraped the monkey's cage
and bent two of the bars.

Then the Tiger lay down again to sleep, but the monkeys soon discovered
that the bending of the bars would allow them to squeeze through.  They
did not leave the cage, however, but after whispering together they let
their tails stick out and all remained quiet.  Presently the Glass Cat
stole near the cage again and gave a yank to one of the tails.
Instantly the monkeys leaped through the bars, one after another, and
although they were so small the entire dozen of them surrounded the
Glass Cat and clung to her claws and tail and ears and made her a
prisoner.  Then they forced her out of the tent and down to the banks
of the stream.  The monkeys had noticed that these banks were covered
with thick, slimy mud of a dark blue color, and when they had taken the
Cat to the stream, they smeared this mud all over the glass body of the
cat, filling the creature's ears and eyes with it, so that she could
neither see nor hear.  She was no longer transparent and so thick was
the mud upon her that no one could see her pink brains or her ruby
heart.

In this condition they led the pussy back to the tent and then got
inside their cage again.

By morning the mud had dried hard on the Glass Cat and it was a dull
blue color throughout.  Dorothy and Trot were horrified, but the Wizard
shook his head and said it served the Glass Cat right for teasing the
monkeys.

Cap'n Bill, with his strong hands, soon bent the golden wires of the
monkeys' cage into the proper position and then he asked the Wizard if
he should wash the Glass Cat in the water of the brook.

"Not just yet," answered the Wizard.  "The Cat deserves to be punished,
so I think I'll leave that blue mud--which is as bad as paint--upon her
body until she gets to the Emerald City.  The silly creature is so vain
that she will be greatly shamed when the Oz people see her in this
condition, and perhaps she'll take the lesson to heart and leave the
monkeys alone hereafter."

However, the Glass Cat could not see or hear, and to avoid carrying her
on the journey the Wizard picked the mud out of her eyes and ears and
Dorothy dampened her handkerchief and washed both the eyes and ears
clean.

As soon as she could speak the Glass Cat asked indignantly: "Aren't you
going to punish those monkeys for playing such a trick on me?"

"No," answered the Wizard.  "You played a trick on them by pulling
their tails, so this is only tit-for-tat, and I'm glad the monkeys had
their revenge."

He wouldn't allow the Glass Cat to go near the water, to wash herself,
but made her follow them when they resumed their journey toward the
Emerald City.

"This is only part of your punishment," said the Wizard, severely.
"Ozma will laugh at you, when we get to her palace, and so will the
Scarecrow, and the Tin Woodman, and Tik-Tok, and the Shaggy Man, and
Button-Bright, and the Patchwork Girl, and--"

"And the Pink Kitten," added Dorothy.

That suggestion hurt the Glass Cat more than anything else.  The Pink
Kitten always quarreled with the Glass Cat and insisted that flesh was
superior to glass, while the Glass Cat would jeer at the Pink Kitten,
because it had no pink brains.  But the pink brains were all daubed
with blue mud, just now, and if the Pink Kitten should see the Glass
Cat in such a condition, it would be dreadfully humiliating.

For several hours the Glass Cat walked along very meekly, but toward
noon it seized an opportunity when no one was looking and darted away
through the long grass.  It remembered that there was a tiny lake of
pure water near by, and to this lake the Cat sped as fast as it could
go.

The others never missed her until they stopped for lunch, and then it
was too late to hunt for her.

"I s'pect she's gone somewhere to clean herself," said Dorothy.

"Never mind," replied the Wizard.  "Perhaps this glass creature has
been punished enough, and we must not forget she saved both Trot and
Cap'n Bill."

"After first leading 'em onto an enchanted island," added Dorothy.
"But I think, as you do, that the Glass Cat is punished enough, and
p'raps she won't try to pull the monkeys' tails again."

The Glass Cat did not rejoin the party of travelers.  She was still
resentful, and they moved too slowly to suit her, besides.  When they
arrived at the Royal Palace, one of the first things they saw was the
Glass Cat curled up on a bench as bright and clean and transparent as
ever.  But she pretended not to notice them, and they passed her by
without remark.




21.  The College of Athletic Arts


Dorothy and her friends arrived at the Royal Palace at an opportune
time, for Ozma was holding high court in her Throne Room, where
Professor H. M. Wogglebug, T.E., was appealing to her to punish some of
the students of the Royal Athletic College, of which he was the
Principal.

This College is located in the Munchkin Country, but not far from the
Emerald City.  To enable the students to devote their entire time to
athletic exercises, such as boating, foot-ball, and the like, Professor
Wogglebug had invented an assortment of Tablets of Learning.  One of
these tablets, eaten by a scholar after breakfast, would instantly
enable him to understand arithmetic or algebra or any other branch of
mathematics.  Another tablet eaten after lunch gave a student a
complete knowledge of geography.  Another tablet made it possible for
the eater to spell the most difficult words, and still another enabled
him to write a beautiful hand.  There were tablets for history,
mechanics, home cooking and agriculture, and it mattered not whether a
boy or a girl was stupid or bright, for the tablets taught them
everything in the twinkling of an eye.

This method, which is patented in the Land of Oz by Professor
Wogglebug, saves paper and books, as well as the tedious hours devoted
to study in some of our less favored schools, and it also allows the
students to devote all their time to racing, base-ball, tennis and
other manly and womanly sports, which are greatly interfered with by
study in those Temples of Learning where Tablets of Learning are
unknown.

But it so happened that Professor Wogglebug (who had invented so much
that he had acquired the habit) carelessly invented a Square-Meal
Tablet, which was no bigger than your little finger-nail but contained,
in condensed form, the equal of a bowl of soup, a portion of fried
fish, a roast, a salad and a dessert, all of which gave the same
nourishment as a square meal.

The Professor was so proud of these Square-Meal Tablets that he began
to feed them to the students at his college, instead of other food, but
the boys and girls objected because they wanted food that they could
enjoy the taste of.  It was no fun at all to swallow a tablet, with a
glass of water, and call it a dinner; so they refused to eat the
Square-Meal Tablets.  Professor Wogglebug insisted, and the result was
that the Senior Class seized the learned Professor one day and threw
him into the river--clothes and all.  Everyone knows that a wogglebug
cannot swim, and so the inventor of the wonderful Square-Meal Tablets
lay helpless on the bottom of the river for three days before a
fisherman caught one of his legs on a fishhook and dragged him out upon
the bank.

The learned Professor was naturally indignant at such treatment, and so
he brought the entire Senior Class to the Emerald City and appealed to
Ozma of Oz to punish them for their rebellion.

I do not suppose the girl Ruler was very severe with the rebellious
boys and girls, because she had herself refused to eat the Square-Meal
Tablets in place of food, but while she was listening to the
interesting case in her Throne Room, Cap'n Bill managed to carry the
golden flower-pot containing the Magic Flower up to Trot's room without
it being seen by anyone except Jellia Jamb, Ozma's chief Maid of Honor,
and Jellia promised not to tell.

Also the Wizard was able to carry the cage of monkeys up to one of the
top towers of the palace, where he had a room of his own, to which no
one came unless invited.  So Trot and Dorothy and Cap'n Bill and the
Wizard were all delighted at the successful end of their adventure.
The Cowardly Lion and the Hungry Tiger went to the marble stables
behind the Royal Palace, where they lived while at home, and they too
kept the secret, even refusing to tell the Wooden Sawhorse, and Hank
the Mule, and the Yellow Hen, and the Pink Kitten where they had been.

Trot watered the Magic Flower every day and allowed no one in her room
to see the beautiful blossoms except her friends, Betsy Bobbin and
Dorothy.  The wonderful plant did not seem to lose any of its magic by
being removed from its island, and Trot was sure that Ozma would prize
it as one of her most delightful treasures.

Up in his tower the little Wizard of Oz began training his twelve tiny
monkeys, and the little creatures were so intelligent that they learned
every trick the Wizard tried to teach them.  The Wizard treated them
with great kindness and gentleness and gave them the food that monkeys
love best, so they promised to do their best on the great occasion of
Ozma's birthday.




22.  Ozma's Birthday Party


It seems odd that a fairy should have a birthday, for fairies, they
say, were born at the beginning of time and live forever.  Yet, on the
other hand, it would be a shame to deprive a fairy, who has so many
other good things, of the delights of a birthday.  So we need not
wonder that the fairies keep their birthdays just as other folks do,
and consider them occasions for feasting and rejoicing.

Ozma, the beautiful girl Ruler of the Fairyland of Oz, was a real
fairy, and so sweet and gentle in caring for her people that she was
greatly beloved by them all.  She lived in the most magnificent palace
in the most magnificent city in the world, but that did not prevent her
from being the friend of the most humble person in her dominions.  She
would mount her Wooden Sawhorse, and ride out to a farm house and sit
in the kitchen to talk with the good wife of the farmer while she did
her family baking; or she would play with the children and give them
rides on her famous wooden steed; or she would stop in a forest to
speak to a charcoal burner and ask if he was happy or desired anything
to make him more content; or she would teach young girls how to sew and
plan pretty dresses, or enter the shops where the jewelers and
craftsmen were busy and watch them at their work, giving to each and
all a cheering word or sunny smile.

And then Ozma would sit in her jeweled throne, with her chosen
courtiers all about her, and listen patiently to any complaint brought
to her by her subjects, striving to accord equal justice to all.
Knowing she was fair in her decisions, the Oz people never murmured at
her judgments, but agreed, if Ozma decided against them, she was right
and they wrong.

When Dorothy and Trot and Betsy Bobbin and Ozma were together, one
would think they were all about of an age, and the fairy Ruler no older
and no more "grown up" than the other three.  She would laugh and romp
with them in regular girlish fashion, yet there was an air of quiet
dignity about Ozma, even in her merriest moods, that, in a manner,
distinguished her from the others.  The three girls loved her
devotedly, but they were never able to quite forget that Ozma was the
Royal Ruler of the wonderful Fairyland of Oz, and by birth belonged to
a powerful race.

Ozma's palace stood in the center of a delightful and extensive garden,
where splendid trees and flowering shrubs and statuary and fountains
abounded.  One could walk for hours in this fascinating park and see
something interesting at every step.  In one place was an aquarium,
where strange and beautiful fish swam; at another spot all the birds of
the air gathered daily to a great feast which Ozma's servants provided
for them, and were so fearless of harm that they would alight upon
one's shoulders and eat from one's hand.  There was also the Fountain
of the Water of Oblivion, but it was dangerous to drink of this water,
because it made one forget everything he had ever before known, even to
his own name, and therefore Ozma had placed a sign of warning upon the
fountain.  But there were also fountains that were delightfully
perfumed, and fountains of delicious nectar, cool and richly flavored,
where all were welcome to refresh themselves.

Around the palace grounds was a great wall, thickly encrusted with
glittering emeralds, but the gates stood open and no one was forbidden
entrance.  On holidays the people of the Emerald City often took their
children to see the wonders of Ozma's gardens, and even entered the
Royal Palace, if they felt so inclined, for they knew that they and
their Ruler were friends, and that Ozma delighted to give them pleasure.

When all this is considered, you will not be surprised that the people
throughout the Land of Oz, as well as Ozma's most intimate friends and
her royal courtiers, were eager to celebrate her birthday, and made
preparations for the festival weeks in advance.  All the brass bands
practiced their nicest tunes, for they were to march in the numerous
processions to be made in the Winkie Country, the Gillikin Country, the
Munchkin Country and the Quadling Country, as well as in the Emerald
City.  Not all the people could go to congratulate their Ruler, but all
could celebrate her birthday, in one way or another, however far
distant from her palace they might be.  Every home and building
throughout the Land of Oz was to be decorated with banners and bunting,
and there were to be games, and plays, and a general good time for
every one.

It was Ozma's custom on her birthday to give a grand feast at the
palace, to which all her closest friends were invited.  It was a
queerly assorted company, indeed, for there are more quaint and unusual
characters in Oz than in all the rest of the world, and Ozma was more
interested in unusual people than in ordinary ones--just as you and I
are.

On this especial birthday of the lovely girl Ruler, a long table was
set in the royal Banquet Hall of the palace, at which were place-cards
for the invited guests, and at one end of the great room was a smaller
table, not so high, for Ozma's animal friends, whom she never forgot,
and at the other end was a big table where all of the birthday gifts
were to be arranged.

When the guests arrived, they placed their gifts on this table and then
found their places at the banquet table.  And, after the guests were
all placed, the animals entered in a solemn procession and were placed
at their table by Jellia Jamb.  Then, while an orchestra hidden by a
bank of roses and ferns played a march composed for the occasion, the
Royal Ozma entered the Banquet Hall, attended by her Maids of Honor,
and took her seat at the head of the table.

She was greeted by a cheer from all the assembled company, the animals
adding their roars and growls and barks and mewing and cackling to
swell the glad tumult, and then all seated themselves at their tables.

At Ozma's right sat the famous Scarecrow of Oz, whose straw-stuffed
body was not beautiful, but whose happy nature and shrewd wit had made
him a general favorite.  On the left of the Ruler was placed the Tin
Woodman, whose metal body had been brightly polished for this event.
The Tin Woodman was the Emperor of the Winkie Country and one of the
most important persons in Oz.

Next to the Scarecrow, Dorothy was seated, and next to her was Tik-Tok,
the Clockwork Man, who had been wound up as tightly as his clockwork
would permit, so he wouldn't interrupt the festivities by running down.
Then came Aunt Em and Uncle Henry, Dorothy's own relations, two kindly
old people who had a cozy home in the Emerald City and were very happy
and contented there.  Then Betsy Bobbin was seated, and next to her the
droll and delightful Shaggy Man, who was a favorite wherever he went.

On the other side of the table, opposite the Tin Woodman was placed
Trot, and next to her, Cap'n Bill.  Then was seated Button-Bright and
Ojo the Lucky, and Dr. Pipt and his good wife Margalot, and the
astonishing Frogman, who had come from the Yip country to be present at
Ozma's birthday feast.

At the foot of the table, facing Ozma, was seated the queenly Glinda,
the good Sorceress of Oz, for this was really the place of honor next
to the head of the table where Ozma herself sat.  On Glinda's right was
the Little Wizard of Oz, who owed to Glinda all of the magical arts he
knew.  Then came Jinjur, a pretty girl farmer of whom Ozma and Dorothy
were quite fond.  The adjoining seat was occupied by the Tin Soldier,
and next to him was Professor H. M.  Wogglebug, T.E., of the Royal
Athletic College.

On Glinda's left was placed the jolly Patchwork Girl, who was a little
afraid of the Sorceress and so was likely to behave herself pretty
well.  The Shaggy Man's brother was beside the Patchwork Girl, and then
came that interesting personage, Jack Pumpkinhead, who had grown a
splendid big pumpkin for a new head to be worn on Ozma's birthday, and
had carved a face on it that was even jollier in expression than the
one he had last worn.  New heads were not unusual with Jack, for the
pumpkins did not keep long, and when the seeds--which served him as
brains--began to get soft and mushy, he realized his head would soon
spoil, and so he procured a new one from his great field of
pumpkins--grown by him so that he need never lack a head.

You will have noticed that the company at Ozma's banquet table was
somewhat mixed, but every one invited was a tried and trusted friend of
the girl Ruler, and their presence made her quite happy.

No sooner had Ozma seated herself, with her back to the birthday table,
than she noticed that all present were eyeing with curiosity and
pleasure something behind her, for the gorgeous Magic Flower was
blooming gloriously and the mammoth blossoms that quickly succeeded one
another on the plant were beautiful to view and filled the entire room
with their delicate fragrance.  Ozma wanted to look, too, to see what
all were staring at, but she controlled her curiosity because it was
not proper that she should yet view her birthday gifts.

So the sweet and lovely Ruler devoted herself to her guests, several of
whom, such as the Scarecrow, the Tin Woodman, the Patchwork Girl,
Tik-Tok, Jack Pumpkinhead and the Tin Soldier, never ate anything but
sat very politely in their places and tried to entertain those of the
guests who did eat.

And, at the animal table, there was another interesting group,
consisting of the Cowardly Lion, the Hungry Tiger, Toto--Dorothy's
little shaggy black dog--Hank the Mule, the Pink Kitten, the Wooden
Sawhorse, the Yellow Hen, and the Glass Cat.  All of these had good
appetites except the Sawhorse and the Glass Cat, and each was given a
plentiful supply of the food it liked best.

Finally, when the banquet was nearly over and the ice-cream was to be
served, four servants entered bearing a huge cake, all frosted and
decorated with candy flowers.  Around the edge of the cake was a row of
lighted candles, and in the center were raised candy letters that
spelled the words:

          OZMA'S
       Birthday Cake
           from
  Dorothy and the Wizard


"Oh, how beautiful!" cried Ozma, greatly delighted, and Dorothy said
eagerly: "Now you must cut the cake, Ozma, and each of us will eat a
piece with our ice-cream."

Jellia Jamb brought a large golden knife with a jeweled handle, and
Ozma stood up in her place and attempted to cut the cake.  But as soon
as the frosting in the center broke under the pressure of the knife
there leaped from the cake a tiny monkey three inches high, and he was
followed by another and another, until twelve monkeys stood on the
tablecloth and bowed low to Ozma.

"Congratulations to our gracious Ruler!" they exclaimed in a chorus,
and then they began a dance, so droll and amusing that all the company
roared with laughter and even Ozma joined in the merriment.  But after
the dance the monkeys performed some wonderful acrobatic feats, and
then they ran to the hollow of the cake and took out some band
instruments of burnished gold--cornets, horns, drums, and the like--and
forming into a procession the monkeys marched up and down the table
playing a jolly tune with the ease of skilled musicians.

Dorothy was delighted with the success of her "Surprise Cake," and
after the monkeys had finished their performance, the banquet came to
an end.

Now was the time for Ozma to see her other presents, so Glinda the Good
rose and, taking the girl Ruler by her hand, led her to the table where
all her gifts were placed in magnificent array.  The Magic Flower of
course attracted her attention first, and Trot had to tell her the
whole story of their adventures in getting it.  The little girl did not
forget to give due credit to the Glass Cat and the little Wizard, but
it was really Cap'n Bill who had bravely carried the golden flower-pot
away from the enchanted Isle.

Ozma thanked them all, and said she would place the Magic Flower in her
boudoir where she might enjoy its beauty and fragrance continually.
But now she discovered the marvelous gown woven by Glinda and her
maidens from strands drawn from pure emeralds, and being a girl who
loved pretty clothes, Ozma's ecstasy at being presented with this
exquisite gown may well be imagined.  She could hardly wait to put it
on, but the table was loaded with other pretty gifts and the night was
far spent before the happy girl Ruler had examined all her presents and
thanked those who had lovingly donated them.




23.  The Fountain of Oblivion


The morning after the birthday fete, as the Wizard and Dorothy were
walking in the grounds of the palace, Ozma came out and joined them,
saying:

"I want to hear more of your adventures in the Forest of Gugu, and how
you were able to get those dear little monkeys to use in Dorothy's
Surprise Cake."

So they sat down on a marble bench near to the Fountain of the Water of
Oblivion, and between them Dorothy and the Wizard related their
adventures.

"I was dreadfully fussy while I was a woolly lamb," said Dorothy, "for
it didn't feel good, a bit.  And I wasn't quite sure, you know, that
I'd ever get to be a girl again."

"You might have been a woolly lamb yet, if I hadn't happened to have
discovered that Magic Transformation Word," declared the Wizard.

"But what became of the walnut and the hickory-nut into which you
transformed those dreadful beast magicians?" inquired Ozma.

"Why, I'd almost forgotten them," was the reply; "but I believe they
are still here in my pocket."

Then he searched in his pockets and brought out the two nuts and showed
them to her.

Ozma regarded them thoughtfully.

"It isn't right to leave any living creatures in such helpless forms,"
said she.  "I think, Wizard, you ought to transform them into their
natural shapes again."

"But I don't know what their natural shapes are," he objected, "for of
course the forms of mixed animals which they had assumed were not
natural to them.  And you must not forget, Ozma, that their natures
were cruel and mischievous, so if I bring them back to life they might
cause us a great deal of trouble."

"Nevertheless," said the Ruler of Oz, "we must free them from their
present enchantments.  When you restore them to their natural forms we
will discover who they really are, and surely we need not fear any two
people, even though they prove to be magicians and our enemies."

"I am not so sure of that," protested the Wizard, with a shake of his
bald head.  "The one bit of magic I robbed them of--which was the Word
of Transformation--is so simple, yet so powerful, that neither Glinda
nor I can equal it.  It isn't all in the word, you know, it's the way
the word is pronounced.  So if the two strange magicians have other
magic of the same sort, they might prove very dangerous to us, if we
liberated them."

"I've an idea!" exclaimed Dorothy.  "I'm no wizard, and no fairy, but
if you do as I say, we needn't fear these people at all."

"What is your thought, my dear?" asked Ozma.

"Well," replied the girl, "here is this Fountain of the Water of
Oblivion, and that's what put the notion into my head.  When the Wizard
speaks that ter'ble word that will change 'em back to their real forms,
he can make 'em dreadful thirsty, too, and we'll put a cup right here
by the fountain, so it'll be handy.  Then they'll drink the water and
forget all the magic they ever knew--and everything else, too."

"That's not a bad idea," said the Wizard, looking at Dorothy
approvingly.

"It's a very GOOD idea," declared Ozma.  "Run for a cup, Dorothy."

So Dorothy ran to get a cup, and while she was gone the Wizard said:

"I don't know whether the real forms of these magicians are those of
men or beasts.  If they're beasts, they would not drink from a cup but
might attack us at once and drink afterward.  So it might be safer for
us to have the Cowardly Lion and the Hungry Tiger here to protect us if
necessary."

Ozma drew out a silver whistle which was attached to a slender gold
chain and blew upon the whistle two shrill blasts.  The sound, though
not harsh, was very penetrating, and as soon as it reached the ears of
the Cowardly Lion and the Hungry Tiger, the two huge beasts quickly
came bounding toward them.  Ozma explained to them what the Wizard was
about to do, and told them to keep quiet unless danger threatened.  So
the two powerful guardians of the Ruler of Oz crouched beside the
fountain and waited.

Dorothy returned and set the cup on the edge of the fountain.  Then the
Wizard placed the hickory-nut beside the fountain and said in a solemn
voice:

"I want you to resume your natural form, and to be very
thirsty--Pyrzqxgl!"

In an instant there appeared, in the place of the hickory-nut, the form
of Kiki Aru, the Hyup boy.  He seemed bewildered, at first, as if
trying to remember what had happened to him and why he was in this
strange place.  But he was facing the fountain, and the bubbling water
reminded him that he was thirsty.  Without noticing Ozma, the Wizard
and Dorothy, who were behind him, he picked up the cup, filled it with
the Water of Oblivion, and drank it to the last drop.

He was now no longer thirsty, but he felt more bewildered than ever,
for now he could remember nothing at all--not even his name or where he
came from.  He looked around the beautiful garden with a pleased
expression, and then, turning, he beheld Ozma and the Wizard and
Dorothy regarding him curiously and the two great beasts crouching
behind them.

Kiki Aru did not know who they were, but he thought Ozma very lovely
and Dorothy very pleasant.  So he smiled at them--the same innocent,
happy smile that a baby might have indulged in, and that pleased
Dorothy, who seized his hand and led him to a seat beside her on the
bench.

"Why, I thought you were a dreadful magician," she exclaimed, "and
you're only a boy!"

"What is a magician?" he asked, "and what is a boy?"

"Don't you know?" inquired the girl.

Kiki shook his head.  Then he laughed.

"I do not seem to know anything," he replied.

"It's very curious," remarked the Wizard.  "He wears the dress of the
Munchkins, so he must have lived at one time in the Munchkin Country.
Of course the boy can tell us nothing of his history or his family, for
he has forgotten all that he ever knew."

"He seems a nice boy, now that all the wickedness has gone from him,"
said Ozma.  "So we will keep him here with us and teach him our
ways--to be true and considerate of others."

"Why, in that case, it's lucky for him he drank the Water of Oblivion,"
said Dorothy.

"It is indeed," agreed the Wizard.  "But the remarkable thing, to me,
is how such a young boy ever learned the secret of the Magic Word of
Transformation.  Perhaps his companion, who is at present this walnut,
was the real magician, although I seem to remember that it was this boy
in the beast's form who whispered the Magic Word into the hollow tree,
where I overheard it."

"Well, we will soon know who the other is," suggested Ozma.  "He may
prove to be another Munchkin boy."

The Wizard placed the walnut near the fountain and said, as slowly and
solemnly as before:

"I want you to resume your natural form, and to be very
thirsty--Pyrzqxgl!"

Then the walnut disappeared and Ruggedo the Nome stood in its place.
He also was facing the fountain, and he reached for the cup, filled it,
and was about to drink when Dorothy exclaimed:

"Why, it's the old Nome King!"

Ruggedo swung around and faced them, the cup still in his hand.

"Yes," he said in an angry voice, "it's the old Nome King, and I'm
going to conquer all Oz and be revenged on you for kicking me out of my
throne."  He looked around a moment, and then continued: "There isn't
an egg in sight, and I'm stronger than all of you people put together!
I don't know how I came here, but I'm going to fight the fight of my
life--and I'll win!"

His long white hair and beard waved in the breeze; his eyes flashed
hate and vengeance, and so astonished and shocked were they by the
sudden appearance of this old enemy of the Oz people that they could
only stare at him in silence and shrink away from his wild glare.

Ruggedo laughed.  He drank the water, threw the cup on the ground and
said fiercely:

"And now--and now--and--"

His voice grew gentle.  He rubbed his forehead with a puzzled air and
stroked his long beard.

"What was I going to say?" he asked, pleadingly.

"Don't you remember?" said the Wizard.

"No; I've forgotten."

"Who ARE you?" asked Dorothy.

He tried to think.  "I--I'm sure I don't know," he stammered.

"Don't you know who WE are, either?" questioned the girl.

"I haven't the slightest idea," said the Nome.

"Tell us who this Munchkin boy is," suggested Ozma.

Ruggedo looked at the boy and shook his head.

"He's a stranger to me.  You are all strangers.  I--I'm a stranger to
myself," he said.

Then he patted the Lion's head and murmured, "Good doggie!" and the
Lion growled indignantly.

"What shall we do with him?" asked the Wizard, perplexed.

"Once before the wicked old Nome came here to conquer us, and then, as
now, he drank of the Water of Oblivion and became harmless.  But we
sent him back to the Nome Kingdom, where he soon learned the old evil
ways again.

"For that reason," said Ozma, "we must find a place for him in the Land
of Oz, and keep him here.  For here he can learn no evil and will
always be as innocent of guile as our own people."

And so the wandering ex-King of the Nomes found a new home, a peaceful
and happy home, where he was quite content and passed his days in
innocent enjoyment.






Chapter One

The Great Whirlpool


"Seems to me," said Cap'n Bill, as he sat beside Trot under the big
acacia tree, looking out over the blue ocean, "seems to me, Trot, as
how the more we know, the more we find we don't know."

"I can't quite make that out, Cap'n Bill," answered the little girl in
a serious voice, after a moment's thought, during which her eyes
followed those of the old sailor-man across the glassy surface of the
sea. "Seems to me that all we learn is jus' so much gained."

"I know; it looks that way at first sight," said the sailor, nodding
his head; "but those as knows the least have a habit of thinkin' they
know all there is to know, while them as knows the most admits what a
turr'ble big world this is. It's the knowing ones that realize one
lifetime ain't long enough to git more'n a few dips o' the oars of
knowledge."

Trot didn't answer. She was a very little girl, with big, solemn eyes
and an earnest, simple manner. Cap'n Bill had been her faithful
companion for years and had taught her almost everything she knew.

He was a wonderful man, this Cap'n Bill. Not so very old, although his
hair was grizzled--what there was of it. Most of his head was bald as
an egg and as shiny as oilcloth, and this made his big ears stick out
in a funny way. His eyes had a gentle look and were pale blue in color,
and his round face was rugged and bronzed. Cap'n Bill's left leg was
missing, from the knee down, and that was why the sailor no longer
sailed the seas. The wooden leg he wore was good enough to stump around
with on land, or even to take Trot out for a row or a sail on the
ocean, but when it came to "runnin' up aloft" or performing active
duties on shipboard, the old sailor was not equal to the task. The loss
of his leg had ruined his career and the old sailor found comfort in
devoting himself to the education and companionship of the little girl.

The accident to Cap'n Bill's leg bad happened at about the time Trot
was born, and ever since that he had lived with Trot's mother as "a
star boarder," having enough money saved up to pay for his weekly
"keep."  He loved the baby and often held her on his lap; her first
ride was on Cap'n Bill's shoulders, for she had no baby-carriage; and
when she began to toddle around, the child and the sailor became close
comrades and enjoyed many strange adventures together. It is said the
fairies had been present at Trot's birth and had marked her forehead
with their invisible mystic signs, so that she was able to see and do
many wonderful things.

The acacia tree was on top of a high bluff, but a path ran down the
bank in a zigzag way to the water's edge, where Cap'n Bill's boat was
moored to a rock by means of a stout cable. It had been a hot, sultry
afternoon, with scarcely a breath of air stirring, so Cap'n Bill and
Trot had been quietly sitting beneath the shade of the tree, waiting
for the sun to get low enough for them to take a row.

They had decided to visit one of the great caves which the waves had
washed out of the rocky coast during many years of steady effort. The
caves were a source of continual delight to both the girl and the
sailor, who loved to explore their awesome depths.

"I b'lieve, Cap'n," remarked Trot, at last, "that it's time for us to
start."

The old man cast a shrewd glance at the sky, the sea and the motionless
boat. Then he shook his head.

"Mebbe it's time, Trot," he answered, "but I don't jes' like the looks
o' things this afternoon."

"What's wrong?" she asked wonderingly.

"Can't say as to that. Things is too quiet to suit me, that's all. No
breeze, not a ripple a-top the water, nary a gull a-flyin' anywhere,
an' the end o' the hottest day o' the year. I ain't no weather-prophet,
Trot, but any sailor would know the signs is ominous."

"There's nothing wrong that I can see," said Trot.

"If there was a cloud in the sky even as big as my thumb, we might
worry about it; but--look, Cap'n!--the sky is as clear as can be."

He looked again and nodded.

"P'r'aps we can make the cave, all right," he agreed, not wishing to
disappoint her.  "It's only a little way out, an' we'll be on the
watch; so come along, Trot."

Together they descended the winding path to the beach. It was no
trouble for the girl to keep her footing on the steep way, but Cap'n
Bill, because of his wooden leg, had to hold on to rocks and roots now
and then to save himself from tumbling. On a level path he was as spry
as anyone, but to climb up hill or down required some care.

They reached the boat safely and while Trot was untying the rope Cap'n
Bill reached into a crevice of the rock and drew out several tallow
candles and a box of wax matches, which he thrust into the capacious
pockets of his "sou'wester."  This sou'wester was a short coat of
oilskin which the old sailor wore on all occasions--when he wore a coat
at all--and the pockets always contained a variety of objects, useful
and ornamental, which made even Trot wonder where they all came from
and why Cap'n Bill should treasure them. The jackknives--a big one and
a little one--the bits of cord, the fishhooks, the nails: these were
handy to have on certain occasions. But bits of shell, and tin boxes
with unknown contents, buttons, pincers, bottles of curious stones and
the like, seemed quite unnecessary to carry around. That was Cap'n
Bill's business, however, and now that he added the candles and the
matches to his collection Trot made no comment, for she knew these last
were to light their way through the caves. The sailor always rowed the
boat, for he handled the oars with strength and skill. Trot sat in the
stern and steered. The place where they embarked was a little bight or
circular bay, and the boat cut across a much larger bay toward a
distant headland where the caves were located, right at the water's
edge. They were nearly a mile from shore and about halfway across the
bay when Trot suddenly sat up straight and exclaimed: "What's that,
Cap'n?"

He stopped rowing and turned half around to look.

"That, Trot," he slowly replied, "looks to me mighty like a whirlpool."

"What makes it, Cap'n?"

"A whirl in the air makes the whirl in the water. I was afraid as we'd
meet with trouble, Trot. Things didn't look right. The air was too
still."

"It's coming closer," said the girl.

The old man grabbed the oars and began rowing with all his strength.

"'Tain't comin' closer to us, Trot," he gasped; "it's we that are
comin' closer to the whirlpool. The thing is drawin' us to it like a
magnet!"

Trot's sun-bronzed face was a little paler as she grasped the tiller
firmly and tried to steer the boat away; but she said not a word to
indicate fear.

The swirl of the water as they came nearer made a roaring sound that
was fearful to listen to. So fierce and powerful was the whirlpool that
it drew the surface of the sea into the form of a great basin, slanting
downward toward the center, where a big hole had been made in the
ocean--a hole with walls of water that were kept in place by the rapid
whirling of the air.

The boat in which Trot and Cap'n Bill were riding was just on the outer
edge of this saucer-like slant, and the old sailor knew very well that
unless he could quickly force the little craft away from the rushing
current they would soon be drawn into the great black hole that yawned
in the middle. So he exerted all his might and pulled as he had never
pulled before. He pulled so hard that the left oar snapped in two and
sent Cap'n Bill sprawling upon the bottom of the boat.

He scrambled up quickly enough and glanced over the side. Then he
looked at Trot, who sat quite still, with a serious, far-away look in
her sweet eyes. The boat was now speeding swiftly of its own accord,
following the line of the circular basin round and round and gradually
drawing nearer to the great hole in the center. Any further effort to
escape the whirlpool was useless, and realizing this fact Cap'n Bill
turned toward Trot and put an arm around her, as if to shield her from
the awful fate before them.  He did not try to speak, because the roar
of the waters would have drowned the sound of his voice.

These two faithful comrades had faced dangers before, but nothing to
equal that which now faced them. Yet Cap'n Bill, noting the look in
Trot's eyes and remembering how often she had been protected by unseen
powers, did not quite give way to despair.

The great hole in the dark water--now growing nearer and nearer--looked
very terrifying; but they were both brave enough to face it and await
the result of the adventure.




Chapter Two

The Cavern Under the Sea


The circles were so much smaller at the bottom of the basin, and the
boat moved so much more swiftly, that Trot was beginning to get dizzy
with the motion, when suddenly the boat made a leap and dived headlong
into the murky depths of the hole. Whirling like tops, but still
clinging together, the sailor and the girl were separated from their
boat and plunged down--down--down--into the farthermost recesses of the
great ocean.

At first their fall was swift as an arrow, but presently they seemed to
be going more moderately and Trot was almost sure that unseen arms were
about her, supporting her and protecting her. She could see nothing,
because the water filled her eyes and blurred her vision, but she clung
fast to Cap'n Bill's sou'wester, while other arms clung fast to her,
and so they gradually sank down and down until a full stop was made,
when they began to ascend again.

But it seemed to Trot that they were not rising straight to the surface
from where they had come. The water was no longer whirling them and
they seemed to be drawn in a slanting direction through still, cool
ocean depths. And then--in much quicker time than I have told it--up
they popped to the surface and were cast at full length upon a sandy
beach, where they lay choking and gasping for breath and wondering what
had happened to them.

Trot was the first to recover. Disengaging herself from Cap'n Bill's
wet embrace and sitting up, she rubbed the water from her eyes and then
looked around her.  A soft, bluish-green glow lighted the place, which
seemed to be a sort of cavern, for above and on either side of her were
rugged rocks. They had been cast upon a beach of clear sand, which
slanted upward from the pool of water at their feet--a pool which
doubtless led into the big ocean that fed it. Above the reach of the
waves of the pool were more rocks, and still more and more, into the
dim windings and recesses of which the glowing light from the water did
not penetrate.

The place looked grim and lonely, but Trot was thankful that she was
still alive and had suffered no severe injury during her trying
adventure under water. At her side Cap'n Bill was sputtering and
coughing, trying to get rid of the water he had swallowed. Both of them
were soaked through, yet the cavern was warm and comfortable and a
wetting did not dismay the little girl in the least.

She crawled up the slant of sand and gathered in her hand a bunch of
dried seaweed, with which she mopped the face of Cap'n Bill and cleared
the water from his eyes and ears. Presently the old man sat up and
stared at her intently. Then he nodded his bald head three times and
said in a gurgling voice:

"Mighty good, Trot; mighty good! We didn't reach Davy Jones's locker
that time, did we? Though why we didn't, an' why we're here, is more'n
I kin make out."

"Take it easy, Cap'n," she replied. "We're safe enough, I guess, at
least for the time being."

He squeezed the water out of the bottoms of his loose trousers and felt
of his wooden leg and arms and head, and finding he had brought all of
his person with him he gathered courage to examine closely their
surroundings.

"Where d'ye think we are, Trot?" he presently asked.

"Can't say, Cap'n. P'r'aps in one of our caves."

He shook his head. "No," said he, "I don't think that, at all.  The
distance we came up didn't seem half as far as the distance we went
down; an' you'll notice there ain't any outside entrance to this cavern
whatever. It's a reg'lar dome over this pool o' water, and unless
there's some passage at the back, up yonder, we're fast pris'ners."

Trot looked thoughtfully over her shoulder.

"When we're rested," she said, "we will crawl up there and see if
there's a way to get out."

Cap'n Bill reached in the pocket of his oilskin coat and took out his
pipe. It was still dry, for he kept it in an oilskin pouch with his
tobacco. His matches were in a tight tin box, so in a few moments the
old sailor was smoking contentedly. Trot knew it helped him to think
when he was in any difficulty. Also, the pipe did much to restore the
old sailor's composure, after his long ducking and his terrible
fright--a fright that was more on Trot's account than his own.

The sand was dry where they sat, and soaked up the water that dripped
from their clothing. When Trot had squeezed the wet out of her hair she
began to feel much like her old self again. By and by they got upon
their feet and crept up the incline to the scattered boulders above.
Some of these were of huge size, but by passing between some and around
others, they were able to reach the extreme rear of the cavern.

"Yes," said Trot, with interest, "here's a round hole."

"And it's black as night inside it," remarked Cap'n Bill.

"Just the same," answered the girl, "we ought to explore it, and see
where it goes, 'cause it's the only poss'ble way we can get out of this
place."

Cap'n Bill eyed the hole doubtfully

"It may be a way out o' here, Trot," he said, "but it may be a way into
a far worse place than this. I'm not sure but our best plan is to stay
right here."

Trot wasn't sure, either, when she thought of it in that light. After
awhile she made her way back to the sands again, and Cap'n Bill
followed her. As they sat down, the child looked thoughtfully at the
sailor's bulging pockets.

"How much food have we got, Cap'n?" she asked.

"Half a dozen ship's biscuits an' a hunk o' cheese," he replied. "Want
some now, Trot?"

She shook her head, saying:

"That ought to keep us alive 'bout three days if we're careful of it."

"Longer'n that, Trot," said Cap'n Bill, but his voice was a little
troubled and unsteady.

"But if we stay here we're bound to starve in time," continued the
girl, "while if we go into the dark hole--"

"Some things are more hard to face than starvation," said the
sailor-man, gravely. "We don't know what's inside that dark hole: Trot,
nor where it might lead us to."

"There's a way to find that out," she persisted.

Instead of replying, Cap'n Bill began searching in his pockets. He soon
drew out a little package of fish-hooks and a long line. Trot watched
him join them together. Then he crept a little way up the slope and
turned over a big rock. Two or three small crabs began scurrying away
over the sands and the old sailor caught them and put one on his hook
and the others in his pocket. Coming back to the pool he swung the hook
over his shoulder and circled it around his head and cast it nearly
into the center of the water, where he allowed it to sink gradually,
paying out the line as far as it would go. When the end was reached, he
began drawing it in again, until the crab bait was floating on the
surface.

Trot watched him cast the line a second time, and a third. She decided
that either there were no fishes in the pool or they would not bite the
crab bait. But Cap'n Bill was an old fisherman and not easily
discouraged. When the crab got away he put another on the hook. When
the crabs were all gone he climbed up the rocks and found some more.

Meantime Trot tired of watching him and lay down upon the sands, where
she fell fast asleep. During the next two hours her clothing dried
completely, as did that of the old sailor. They were both so used to
salt water that there was no danger of taking cold.

Finally the little girl was wakened by a splash beside her and a grunt
of satisfaction from Cap'n Bill. She opened her eyes to find that the
Cap'n had landed a silver-scaled fish weighing about two pounds. This
cheered her considerably and she hurried to scrape together a heap of
seaweed, while Cap'n Bill cut up the fish with his jackknife and got it
ready for cooking.

They had cooked fish with seaweed before. Cap'n Bill wrapped his fish
in some of the weed and dipped it in the water to dampen it. Then he
lighted a match and set fire to Trot's heap, which speedily burned down
to a glowing bed of ashes. Then they laid the wrapped fish on the
ashes, covered it with more seaweed, and allowed this to catch fire and
burn to embers. After feeding the fire with seaweed for some time, the
sailor finally decided that their supper was ready, so he scattered the
ashes and drew out the bits of fish, still encased in their smoking
wrappings.

When these wrappings were removed, the fish was found thoroughly cooked
and both Trot and Cap'n Bill ate of it freely. It had a slight flavor
of seaweed and would have been better with a sprinkling of salt.

The soft glow which until now had lighted the cavern, began to grow
dim, but there was a great quantity of seaweed in the place, so after
they had eaten their fish they kept the fire alive for a time by giving
it a handful of fuel now and then.

From an inner pocket the sailor drew a small flask of battered metal
and unscrewing the cap handed it to Trot.  She took but one swallow of
the water although she wanted more, and she noticed that Cap'n Bill
merely wet his lips with it.

"S'pose," said she, staring at the glowing seaweed fire and speaking
slowly, "that we can catch all the fish we need; how 'bout the
drinking-water, Cap'n?"

He moved uneasily but did not reply. Both of them were thinking about
the dark hole, but while Trot had little fear of it the old man could
not overcome his dislike to enter the place. He knew that Trot was
right, though. To remain in the cavern, where they now were, could only
result in slow but sure death.

It was nighttime up on the earth's surface, so the little girl became
drowsy and soon fell asleep. After a time the old sailor slumbered on
the sands beside her. It was very still and nothing disturbed them for
hours. When at last they awoke the cavern was light again.

They had divided one of the biscuits and were munching it for breakfast
when they were startled by a sudden splash in the pool. Looking toward
it they saw emerging from the water the most curious creature either of
them had ever beheld. It wasn't a fish, Trot decided, nor was it a
beast. It had wings, though, and queer wings they were: shaped like an
inverted chopping-bowl and covered with tough skin instead of feathers.
It had four legs--much like the legs of a stork, only double the
number--and its head was shaped a good deal like that of a poll parrot,
with a beak that curved downward in front and upward at the edges, and
was half bill and half mouth. But to call it a bird was out of the
question, because it had no feathers whatever except a crest of wavy
plumes of a scarlet color on the very top of its head. The strange
creature must have weighed as much as Cap'n Bill, and as it floundered
and struggled to get out of the water to the sandy beach it was so big
and unusual that both Trot and her companion stared at it in wonder--in
wonder that was not unmixed with fear.




Chapter Three

The Ork


The eyes that regarded them, as the creature stood dripping before
them, were bright and mild in expression, and the queer addition to
their party made no attempt to attack them and seemed quite as
surprised by the meeting as they were.

"I wonder," whispered Trot, "what it is."

"Who, me?" exclaimed the creature in a shrill, high-pitched voice.
"Why, I'm an Ork."

"Oh!" said the girl. "But what is an Ork?"

"I am," he repeated, a little proudly, as he shook the water from his
funny wings; "and if ever an Ork was glad to be out of the water and on
dry land again, you can be mighty sure that I'm that especial,
individual Ork!"

"Have you been in the water long?" inquired Cap'n Bill, thinking it
only polite to show an interest in the strange creature.

"Why, this last ducking was about ten minutes, I believe, and that's
about nine minutes and sixty seconds too long for comfort," was the
reply. "But last night I was in an awful pickle, I assure you. The
whirlpool caught me, and--"

"Oh, were you in the whirlpool, too?" asked Trot eagerly.

He gave her a glance that was somewhat reproachful.

"I believe I was mentioning the fact, young lady, when your desire to
talk interrupted me," said the Ork. "I am not usually careless in my
actions, but that whirlpool was so busy yesterday that I thought I'd
see what mischief it was up to. So I flew a little too near it and the
suction of the air drew me down into the depths of the ocean. Water and
I are natural enemies, and it would have conquered me this time had not
a bevy of pretty mermaids come to my assistance and dragged me away
from the whirling water and far up into a cavern, where they deserted
me."

"Why, that's about the same thing that happened to us," cried Trot.
"Was your cavern like this one?"

"I haven't examined this one yet," answered the Ork; "but if they
happen to be alike I shudder at our fate, for the other one was a
prison, with no outlet except by means of the water.  I stayed there
all night, however, and this morning I plunged into the pool, as far
down as I could go, and then swam as hard and as far as I could. The
rocks scraped my back, now and then, and I barely escaped the clutches
of an ugly sea-monster; but by and by I came to the surface to catch my
breath, and found myself here. That's the whole story, and as I see you
have something to eat I entreat you to give me a share of it. The truth
is, I'm half starved."

With these words the Ork squatted down beside them. Very reluctantly
Cap'n Bill drew another biscuit from his pocket and held it out. The
Ork promptly seized it in one of its front claws and began to nibble
the biscuit in much the same manner a parrot might have done.

"We haven't much grub," said the sailor-man, "but we're willin' to
share it with a comrade in distress."

"That's right," returned the Ork, cocking its head sidewise in a
cheerful manner, and then for a few minutes there was silence while
they all ate of the biscuits. After a while Trot said:

"I've never seen or heard of an Ork before. Are there many of you?"

"We are rather few and exclusive, I believe," was the reply. "In the
country where I was born we are the absolute rulers of all living
things, from ants to elephants."

"What country is that?" asked Cap'n Bill.

"Orkland."

"Where does it lie?"

"I don't know, exactly. You see, I have a restless nature, for some
reason, while all the rest of my race are quiet and contented Orks and
seldom stray far from home. From childhood days I loved to fly long
distances away, although father often warned me that I would get into
trouble by so doing.

"'It's a big world, Flipper, my son,' he would say, 'and I've heard
that in parts of it live queer two-legged creatures called Men, who war
upon all other living things and would have little respect for even an
Ork.'

"This naturally aroused my curiosity and after I had completed my
education and left school I decided to fly out into the world and try
to get a glimpse of the creatures called Men. So I left home without
saying good-bye, an act I shall always regret. Adventures were many, I
found. I sighted men several times, but have never before been so close
to them as now. Also I had to fight my way through the air, for I met
gigantic birds, with fluffy feathers all over them, which attacked me
fiercely. Besides, it kept me busy escaping from floating airships. In
my rambling I had lost all track of distance or direction, so that when
I wanted to go home I had no idea where my country was located. I've
now been trying to find it for several months and it was during one of
my flights over the ocean that I met the whirlpool and became its
victim."

Trot and Cap'n Bill listened to this recital with much interest, and
from the friendly tone and harmless appearance of the Ork they judged
he was not likely to prove so disagreeable a companion as at first they
had feared he might be.

The Ork sat upon its haunches much as a cat does, but used the
finger-like claws of its front legs almost as cleverly as if they were
hands. Perhaps the most curious thing about the creature was its tail,
or what ought to have been its tail. This queer arrangement of skin,
bones and muscle was shaped like the propellers used on boats and
airships, having fan-like surfaces and being pivoted to its body. Cap'n
Bill knew something of mechanics, and observing the propeller-like tail
of the Ork he said:

"I s'pose you're a pretty swift flyer?"

"Yes, indeed; the Orks are admitted to be Kings of the Air."

"Your wings don't seem to amount to much," remarked Trot.

"Well, they are not very big," admitted the Ork, waving the four hollow
skins gently to and fro, "but they serve to support my body in the air
while I speed along by means of my tail. Still, taken altogether, I'm
very handsomely formed, don't you think?"

Trot did not like to reply, but Cap'n Bill nodded gravely. "For an
Ork," said he, "you're a wonder. I've never seen one afore, but I can
imagine you're as good as any."

That seemed to please the creature and it began walking around the
cavern, making its way easily up the slope. While it was gone, Trot and
Cap'n Bill each took another sip from the water-flask, to wash down
their breakfast.

"Why, here's a hole--an exit--an outlet!" exclaimed the Ork from above.

"We know," said Trot. "We found it last night."

"Well, then, let's be off," continued the Ork, after sticking its head
into the black hole and sniffing once or twice. "The air seems fresh
and sweet, and it can't lead us to any worse place than this."

The girl and the sailor-man got up and climbed to the side of the Ork.

"We'd about decided to explore this hole before you came," explained
Cap'n Bill; "but it's a dangerous place to navigate in the dark, so
wait till I light a candle."

"What is a candle?" inquired the Ork.

"You'll see in a minute," said Trot.

The old sailor drew one of the candles from his right-side pocket and
the tin matchbox from his left-side pocket. When he lighted the match
the Ork gave a startled jump and eyed the flame suspiciously; but Cap'n
Bill proceeded to light the candle and the action interested the Ork
very much.

"Light," it said, somewhat nervously, "is valuable in a hole of this
sort. The candle is not dangerous, I hope?"

"Sometimes it burns your fingers," answered Trot, "but that's about the
worst it can do--'cept to blow out when you don't want it to."

Cap'n Bill shielded the flame with his hand and crept into the hole. It
wasn't any too big for a grown man, but after he had crawled a few feet
it grew larger.  Trot came close behind him and then the Ork followed.

"Seems like a reg'lar tunnel," muttered the sailor-man, who was
creeping along awkwardly because of his wooden leg. The rocks, too,
hurt his knees.

For nearly half an hour the three moved slowly along the tunnel, which
made many twists and turns and sometimes slanted downward and sometimes
upward. Finally Cap'n Bill stopped short, with an exclamation of
disappointment, and held the flickering candle far ahead to light the
scene.

"What's wrong?" demanded Trot, who could see nothing because the
sailor's form completely filled the hole.

"Why, we've come to the end of our travels, I guess," he replied.

"Is the hole blocked?" inquired the Ork.

"No; it's wuss nor that," replied Cap'n Bill sadly. "I'm on the edge of
a precipice. Wait a minute an' I'll move along and let you see for
yourselves. Be careful, Trot, not to fall."

Then he crept forward a little and moved to one side, holding the
candle so that the girl could see to follow him. The Ork came next and
now all three knelt on a narrow ledge of rock which dropped straight
away and left a huge black space which the tiny flame of the candle
could not illuminate.

"H-m!" said the Ork, peering over the edge; "this doesn't look very
promising, I'll admit. But let me take your candle, and I'll fly down
and see what's below us."

"Aren't you afraid?" asked Trot.

"Certainly I'm afraid," responded the Ork. "But if we intend to escape
we can't stay on this shelf forever. So, as I notice you poor creatures
cannot fly, it is my duty to explore the place for you."

Cap'n Bill handed the Ork the candle, which had now burned to about
half its length. The Ork took it in one claw rather cautiously and then
tipped its body forward and slipped over the edge. They heard a queer
buzzing sound, as the tail revolved, and a brisk flapping of the
peculiar wings, but they were more interested just then in following
with their eyes the tiny speck of light which marked the location of
the candle. This light first made a great circle, then dropped slowly
downward and suddenly was extinguished, leaving everything before them
black as ink.

"Hi, there! How did that happen?" cried the Ork.

"It blew out, I guess," shouted Cap'n Bill. "Fetch it here."

"I can't see where you are," said the Ork.

So Cap'n Bill got out another candle and lighted it, and its flame
enabled the Ork to fly back to them. It alighted on the edge and held
out the bit of candle.

"What made it stop burning?" asked the creature.

"The wind," said Trot. "You must be more careful, this time."

"What's the place like?" inquired Cap'n Bill.

"I don't know, yet; but there must be a bottom to it, so I'll try to
find it."

With this the Ork started out again and this time sank downward more
slowly. Down, down, down it went, till the candle was a mere spark, and
then it headed away to the left and Trot and Cap'n Bill lost all sight
of it.

In a few minutes, however, they saw the spark of light again, and as
the sailor still held the second lighted candle the Ork made straight
toward them. It was only a few yards distant when suddenly it dropped
the candle with a cry of pain and next moment alighted, fluttering
wildly, upon the rocky ledge.

"What's the matter?" asked Trot.

"It bit me!" wailed the Ork. "I don't like your candles. The thing
began to disappear slowly as soon as I took it in my claw, and it grew
smaller and smaller until just now it turned and bit me--a most
unfriendly thing to do. Oh--oh! Ouch, what a bite!"

"That's the nature of candles, I'm sorry to say," explained Cap'n Bill,
with a grin. "You have to handle 'em mighty keerful. But tell us, what
did you find down there?"

"I found a way to continue our journey," said the Ork, nursing tenderly
the claw which had been burned. "Just below us is a great lake of black
water, which looked so cold and wicked that it made me shudder; but
away at the left there's a big tunnel, which we can easily walk
through. I don't know where it leads to, of course, but we must follow
it and find out." "why, we can't get to it," protested the little girl.
"We can't fly, as you do, you must remember."

"No, that's true," replied the Ork musingly. "Your bodies are built
very poorly, it seems to me, since all you can do is crawl upon the
earth's surface. But you may ride upon my back, and in that way I can
promise you a safe journey to the tunnel."

"Are you strong enough to carry us?" asked Cap'n Bill, doubtfully.

"Yes, indeed; I'm strong enough to carry a dozen of you, if you could
find a place to sit," was the reply; "but there's only room between my
wings for one at a time, so I'll have to make two trips."

"All right; I'll go first," decided Cap'n Bill.

He lit another candle for Trot to hold while they were gone and to
light the Ork on his return to her, and then the old sailor got upon
the Ork's back, where he sat with his wooden leg sticking straight out
sidewise.

"If you start to fall, clasp your arms around my neck," advised the
creature.

"If I start to fall, it's good night an' pleasant dreams," said Cap'n
Bill.

"All ready?" asked the Ork.

"Start the buzz-tail," said Cap'n Bill, with a tremble in his voice.
But the Ork flew away so gently that the old man never even tottered in
his seat. Trot watched the light of Cap'n Bill's candle till it
disappeared in the far distance. She didn't like to be left alone on
this dangerous ledge, with a lake of black water hundreds of feet below
her; but she was a brave little girl and waited patiently for the
return of the Ork. It came even sooner than she had expected and the
creature said to her:

"Your friend is safe in the tunnel. Now, then, get aboard and I'll
carry you to him in a jiffy."

I'm sure not many little girls would have cared to take that awful ride
through the huge black cavern on the back of a skinny Ork. Trot didn't
care for it, herself, but it just had to be done and so she did it as
courageously as possible. Her heart beat fast and she was so nervous
she could scarcely hold the candle in her fingers as the Ork sped
swiftly through the darkness.

It seemed like a long ride to her, yet in reality the Ork covered the
distance in a wonderfully brief period of time and soon Trot stood
safely beside Cap'n Bill on the level floor of a big arched tunnel. The
sailor-man was very glad to greet his little comrade again and both
were grateful to the Ork for his assistance.

"I dunno where this tunnel leads to," remarked Cap'n Bill, "but it
surely looks more promisin' than that other hole we crept through."

"When the Ork is rested," said Trot, "we'll travel on and see what
happens."

"Rested!" cried the Ork, as scornfully as his shrill voice would allow.
"That bit of flying didn't tire me at all. I'm used to flying days at a
time, without ever once stopping."

"Then let's move on," proposed Cap'n Bill. He still held in his hand
one lighted candle, so Trot blew out the other flame and placed her
candle in the sailor's big pocket. She knew it was not wise to burn two
candles at once.

The tunnel was straight and smooth and very easy to walk through, so
they made good progress. Trot thought that the tunnel began about two
miles from the cavern where they had been cast by the whirlpool, but
now it was impossible to guess the miles traveled, for they walked
steadily for hours and hours without any change in their surroundings.

Finally Cap'n Bill stopped to rest.

"There's somethin' queer about this 'ere tunnel, I'm certain," he
declared, wagging his head dolefully. "Here's three candles gone
a'ready, an' only three more left us, yet the tunnel's the same as it
was when we started. An' how long it's goin' to keep up, no one knows."

"Couldn't we walk without a light?" asked Trot. "The way seems safe
enough."

"It does right now," was the reply, "but we can't tell when we are
likely to come to another gulf, or somethin' jes' as dangerous. In that
case we'd be killed afore we knew it."

"Suppose I go ahead?" suggested the Ork.  "I don't fear a fall, you
know, and if anything happens I'll call out and warn you."

"That's a good idea," declared Trot, and Cap'n Bill thought so, too. So
the Ork started off ahead, quite in the dark, and hand in band the two
followed him.

When they had walked in this way for a good long time the Ork halted
and demanded food. Cap'n Bill had not mentioned food because there was
so little left--only three biscuits and a lump of cheese about as big
as his two fingers--but he gave the Ork half of a biscuit, sighing as
he did so. The creature didn't care for the cheese, so the sailor
divided it between himself and Trot. They lighted a candle and sat down
in the tunnel while they ate.

"My feet hurt me," grumbled the Ork.  "I'm not used to walking and this
rocky passage is so uneven and lumpy that it hurts me to walk upon it."

"Can't you fly along?" asked Trot.

"No; the roof is too low," said the Ork.

After the meal they resumed their journey, which Trot began to fear
would never end. When Cap'n Bill noticed how tired the little girl was,
he paused and lighted a match and looked at his big silver watch.

"Why, it's night!" he exclaimed. "We've tramped all day, an' still
we're in this awful passage, which mebbe goes straight through the
middle of the world, an' mebbe is a circle--in which case we can keep
walkin' till doomsday. Not knowin' what's before us so well as we know
what's behind us, I propose we make a stop, now, an' try to sleep till
mornin'."

"That will suit me," asserted the Ork, with a groan. "My feet are
hurting me dreadfully and for the last few miles I've been limping with
pain."

"My foot hurts, too," said the sailor, looking for a smooth place on
the rocky floor to sit down.

"Your foot!" cried the Ork. "why, you've only one to hurt you, while I
have four. So I suffer four times as much as you possibly can. Here;
hold the candle while I look at the bottoms of my claws. I declare," he
said, examining them by the flickering light, "there are bunches of
pain all over them!"

"P'r'aps," said Trot, who was very glad to sit down beside her
companions, "you've got corns."

"Corns? Nonsense! Orks never have corns," protested the creature,
rubbing its sore feet tenderly.

"Then mebbe they're--they're-- What do you call 'em, Cap'n Bill?
Something 'bout the Pilgrim's Progress, you know."

"Bunions," said Cap'n Bill.

"Oh, yes; mebbe you've got bunions."

"It is possible," moaned the Ork.  "But whatever they are, another day
of such walking on them would drive me crazy."

"I'm sure they'll feel better by mornin'," said Cap'n Bill,
encouragingly. "Go to sleep an' try to forget your sore feet."

The Ork cast a reproachful look at the sailor-man, who didn't see it.
Then the creature asked plaintively: "Do we eat now, or do we starve?"

"There's only half a biscuit left for you," answered Cap'n Bill. "No
one knows how long we'll have to stay in this dark tunnel, where
there's nothing whatever to eat; so I advise you to save that morsel o'
food till later."

"Give it me now!" demanded the Ork. "If I'm going to starve, I'll do it
all at once--not by degrees."

Cap'n Bill produced the biscuit and the creature ate it in a trice.
Trot was rather hungry and whispered to Cap'n Bill that she'd take part
of her share; but the old man secretly broke his own half-biscuit in
two, saving Trot's share for a time of greater need.

He was beginning to be worried over the little girl's plight and long
after she was asleep and the Ork was snoring in a rather disagreeable
manner, Cap'n Bill sat with his back to a rock and smoked his pipe and
tried to think of some way to escape from this seemingly endless
tunnel. But after a time he also slept, for hobbling on a wooden leg
all day was tiresome, and there in the dark slumbered the three
adventurers for many hours, until the Ork roused itself and kicked the
old sailor with one foot.

"It must be another day," said he.




Chapter Four

Daylight at Last


Cap'n Bill rubbed his eyes, lit a match and consulted his watch.

"Nine o'clock.  Yes, I guess it's another day, sure enough. Shall we go
on?" he asked.

"Of course," replied the Ork. "Unless this tunnel is different from
everything else in the world, and has no end, we'll find a way out of
it sooner or later."

The sailor gently wakened Trot. She felt much rested by her long sleep
and sprang to her feet eagerly.

"Let's start, Cap'n," was all she said.

They resumed the journey and had only taken a few steps when the Ork
cried "Wow!" and made a great fluttering of its wings and whirling of
its tail. The others, who were following a short distance behind,
stopped abruptly.

"What's the matter?" asked Cap'n Bill.

"Give us a light," was the reply. "I think we've come to the end of the
tunnel." Then, while Cap'n Bill lighted a candle, the creature added:
"If that is true, we needn't have wakened so soon, for we were almost
at the end of this place when we went to sleep."

The sailor-man and Trot came forward with a light. A wall of rock
really faced the tunnel, but now they saw that the opening made a sharp
turn to the left. So they followed on, by a narrower passage, and then
made another sharp turn this time to the right.

"Blow out the light, Cap'n," said the Ork, in a pleased voice. "We've
struck daylight."

Daylight at last! A shaft of mellow light fell almost at their feet as
Trot and the sailor turned the corner of the passage, but it came from
above, and raising their eyes they found they were at the bottom of a
deep, rocky well, with the top far, far above their heads. And here the
passage ended.

For a while they gazed in silence, at least two of them being filled
with dismay at the sight. But the Ork merely whistled softly and said
cheerfully:

"That was the toughest journey I ever had the misfortune to undertake,
and I'm glad it's over. Yet, unless I can manage to fly to the top of
this pit, we are entombed here forever."

"Do you think there is room enough for you to fly in?" asked the little
girl anxiously; and Cap'n Bill added:

"It's a straight-up shaft, so I don't see how you'll ever manage it."

"Were I an ordinary bird--one of those horrid feathered things--I
wouldn't even make the attempt to fly out," said the Ork.  "But my
mechanical propeller tail can accomplish wonders, and whenever you're
ready I'll show you a trick that is worth while."

"Oh!" exclaimed Trot; "do you intend to take us up, too?"

"Why not?"

"I thought," said Cap'n Bill, "as you'd go first, an' then send
somebody to help us by lettin' down a rope."

"Ropes are dangerous," replied the Ork, "and I might not be able to
find one to reach all this distance. Besides, it stands to reason that
if I can get out myself I can also carry you two with me."

"Well, I'm not afraid," said Trot, who longed to be on the earth's
surface again.

"S'pose we fall?" suggested Cap'n Bill, doubtfully.

"Why, in that case we would all fall together," returned the Ork. "Get
aboard, little girl; sit across my shoulders and put both your arms
around my neck."

Trot obeyed and when she was seated on the Ork, Cap'n Bill inquired:

"How 'bout me, Mr. Ork?"

"Why, I think you'd best grab hold of my rear legs and let me carry you
up in that manner," was the reply.

Cap'n Bill looked way up at the top of the well, and then he looked at
the Ork's slender, skinny legs and heaved a deep sigh.

"It's goin' to be some dangle, I guess; but if you don't waste too much
time on the way up, I may be able to hang on," said he.

"All ready, then!" cried the Ork, and at once his whirling tail began
to revolve. Trot felt herself rising into the air; when the creature's
legs left the ground Cap'n Bill grasped two of them firmly and held on
for dear life.  The Ork's body was tipped straight upward, and Trot had
to embrace the neck very tightly to keep from sliding off. Even in this
position the Ork had trouble in escaping the rough sides of the well.
Several times it exclaimed "Wow!" as it bumped its back, or a wing hit
against some jagged projection; but the tail kept whirling with
remarkable swiftness and the daylight grew brighter and brighter. It
was, indeed, a long journey from the bottom to the top, yet almost
before Trot realized they had come so far, they popped out of the hole
into the clear air and sunshine and a moment later the Ork alighted
gently upon the ground.

The release was so sudden that even with the creature's care for its
passengers Cap'n Bill struck the earth with a shock that sent him
rolling heel over head; but by the time Trot had slid down from her
seat the old sailor-man was sitting up and looking around him with much
satisfaction.

"It's sort o' pretty here," said he.

"Earth is a beautiful place!" cried Trot.

"I wonder where on earth we are?" pondered the Ork, turning first one
bright eye and then the other to this side and that. Trees there were,
in plenty, and shrubs and flowers and green turf. But there were no
houses; there were no paths; there was no sign of civilization whatever.

"Just before I settled down on the ground I thought I caught a view of
the ocean," said the Ork. "Let's see if I was right." Then he flew to a
little hill, near by, and Trot and Cap'n Bill followed him more slowly.
When they stood on the top of the hill they could see the blue waves of
the ocean in front of them, to the right of them, and at the left of
them. Behind the hill was a forest that shut out the view.

"I hope it ain't an island, Trot," said Cap'n Bill gravely.

"If it is, I s'pose we're prisoners," she replied.

"Ezzackly so, Trot."

"But, 'even so, it's better than those terr'ble underground tunnels and
caverns," declared the girl.

"You are right, little one," agreed the Ork. "Anything above ground is
better than the best that lies under ground. So let's not quarrel with
our fate but be thankful we've escaped."

"We are, indeed!" she replied. "But I wonder if we can find something
to eat in this place?"

"Let's explore an' find out," proposed Cap'n Bill. "Those trees over at
the left look like cherry-trees."

On the way to them the explorers had to walk through a tangle of vines
and Cap'n Bill, who went first, stumbled and pitched forward on his
face.

"Why, it's a melon!" cried Trot delightedly, as she saw what had caused
the sailor to fall.

Cap'n Bill rose to his foot, for he was not at all hurt, and examined
the melon. Then he took his big jackknife from his pocket and cut the
melon open. It was quite ripe and looked delicious; but the old man
tasted it before he permitted Trot to eat any. Deciding it was good he
gave her a big slice and then offered the Ork some. The creature looked
at the fruit somewhat disdainfully, at first, but once he had tasted
its flavor he ate of it as heartily as did the others. Among the vines
they discovered many other melons, and Trot said gratefully: "Well,
there's no danger of our starving, even if this is an island."

"Melons," remarked Cap'n Bill, "are both food an' water. We couldn't
have struck anything better."

Farther on they came to the cherry trees, where they obtained some of
the fruit, and at the edge of the little forest were wild plums. The
forest itself consisted entirely of nut trees--walnuts, filberts,
almonds and chestnuts--so there would be plenty of wholesome food for
them while they remained there.

Cap'n Bill and Trot decided to walk through the forest, to discover
what was on the other side of it, but the Ork's feet were still so sore
and "lumpy" from walking on the rocks that the creature said he
preferred to fly over the tree-tops and meet them on the other side.
The forest was not large, so by walking briskly for fifteen minutes
they reached its farthest edge and saw before them the shore of the
ocean.

"It's an island, all right," said Trot, with a sigh.

"Yes, and a pretty island, too," said Cap'n Bill, trying to conceal his
disappointment on Trot's account. "I guess, partner, if the wuss comes
to the wuss, I could build a raft--or even a boat--from those trees,
so's we could sail away in it."

The little girl brightened at this suggestion. "I don't see the Ork
anywhere," she remarked, looking around. Then her eyes lighted upon
something and she exclaimed: "Oh, Cap'n Bill! Isn't that a house, over
there to the left?"

Cap'n Bill, looking closely, saw a shed-like structure built at one
edge of the forest.

"Seems like it, Trot. Not that I'd call it much of a house, but it's a
buildin', all right. Let's go over an' see if it's occypied."




Chapter Five

The Little Old Man of the Island


A few steps brought them to the shed, which was merely a roof of boughs
built over a square space, with some branches of trees fastened to the
sides to keep off the wind. The front was quite open and faced the sea,
and as our friends came nearer they observed a little man, with a long
pointed beard, sitting motionless on a stool and staring thoughtfully
out over the water.

"Get out of the way, please," he called in a fretful voice. "Can't you
see you are obstructing my view?"

"Good morning," said Cap'n Bill, politely.

"It isn't a good morning!" snapped the little man. "I've seen plenty of
mornings better than this.  Do you call it a good morning when I'm
pestered with such a crowd as you?"

Trot was astonished to hear such words from a stranger whom they had
greeted quite properly, and Cap'n Bill grew red at the little man's
rudeness. But the sailor said, in a quiet tone of voice:

"Are you the only one as lives on this 'ere island?"

"Your grammar's bad," was the reply. "But this is my own exclusive
island, and I'll thank you to get off it as soon as possible."

"We'd like to do that," said Trot, and then she and Cap'n Bill turned
away and walked down to the shore, to see if any other land was in
sight.

The little man rose and followed them, although both were now too
provoked to pay any attention to him.

"Nothin' in sight, partner," reported Cap'n Bill, shading his eyes with
his hand; "so we'll have to stay here for a time, anyhow. It isn't a
bad place, Trot, by any means."

"That's all you know about it!" broke in the little man. "The trees are
altogether too green and the rocks are harder than they ought to be. I
find the sand very grainy and the water dreadfully wet. Every breeze
makes a draught and the sun shines in the daytime, when there's no need
of it, and disappears just as soon as it begins to get dark. If you
remain here you'll find the island very unsatisfactory."

Trot turned to look at him, and her sweet face was grave and curious.

"I wonder who you are," she said.

"My name is Pessim," said he, with an air of pride. "I'm called the
Observer."

"Oh. What do you observe?" asked the little girl.

"Everything I see," was the reply, in a more surly tone. Then Pessim
drew back with a startled exclamation and looked at some footprints in
the sand. "Why, good gracious me!" he cried in distress.

"What's the matter now?" asked Cap'n Bill.

"Someone has pushed the earth in!  Don't you see it?

"It isn't pushed in far enough to hurt anything," said Trot, examining
the footprints.

"Everything hurts that isn't right," insisted the man. "If the earth
were pushed in a mile, it would be a great calamity, wouldn't it?"

"I s'pose so," admitted the little girl.

"Well, here it is pushed in a full inch!  That's a twelfth of a foot,
or a little more than a millionth part of a mile.  Therefore it is
one-millionth part of a calamity--Oh, dear! How dreadful!" said Pessim
in a wailing voice.

"Try to forget it, sir," advised Cap'n Bill, soothingly. "It's
beginning to rain. Let's get under your shed and keep dry."

"Raining!  Is it really raining?" asked Pessim, beginning to weep.

"It is," answered Cap'n Bill, as the drops began to descend, "and I
don't see any way to stop it--although I'm some observer myself."

"No; we can't stop it, I fear," said the man. "Are you very busy just
now?"

"I won't be after I get to the shed," replied the sailor-man.

"Then do me a favor, please," begged Pessim, walking briskly along
behind them, for they were hastening to the shed.

"Depends on what it is," said Cap'n Bill.

"I wish you would take my umbrella down to the shore and hold it over
the poor fishes till it stops raining. I'm afraid they'll get wet,"
said Pessim.

Trot laughed, but Cap'n Bill thought the little man was poking fun at
him and so he scowled upon Pessim in a way that showed he was angry.

They reached the shed before getting very wet, although the rain was
now coming down in big drops. The roof of the shed protected them and
while they stood watching the rainstorm something buzzed in and circled
around Pessim's head. At once the Observer began beating it away with
his hands, crying out:

"A bumblebee! A bumblebee! The queerest bumblebee I ever saw!"

Cap'n Bill and Trot both looked at it and the little girl said in
surprise:

"Dear me! It's a wee little Ork!"

"That's what it is, sure enough," exclaimed Cap'n Bill.

Really, it wasn't much bigger than a big bumblebee, and when it came
toward Trot she allowed it to alight on her shoulder.

"It's me, all right," said a very small voice in her ear; "but I'm in
an awful pickle, just the same!"

"What, are you our Ork, then?" demanded the girl, much amazed.

"No, I'm my own Ork. But I'm the only Ork you know," replied the tiny
creature.

"What's happened to you?" asked the sailor, putting his head close to
Trot's shoulder in order to hear the reply better. Pessim also put his
head close, and the Ork said:

"You will remember that when I left you I started to fly over the
trees, and just as I got to this side of the forest I saw a bush that
was loaded down with the most luscious fruit you can imagine.  The
fruit was about the size of a gooseberry and of a lovely lavender
color. So I swooped down and picked off one in my bill and ate it. At
once I began to grow small. I could feel myself shrinking, shrinking
away, and it frightened me terribly, so that I lighted on the ground to
think over what was happening. In a few seconds I had shrunk to the
size you now see me; but there I remained, getting no smaller, indeed,
but no larger. It is certainly a dreadful affliction! After I had
recovered somewhat from the shock I began to search for you. It is not
so easy to find one's way when a creature is so small, but fortunately
I spied you here in this shed and came to you at once."

Cap'n Bill and Trot were much astonished at this story and felt grieved
for the poor Ork, but the little man Pessim seemed to think it a good
joke. He began laughing when he heard the story and laughed until he
choked, after which he lay down on the ground and rolled and laughed
again, while the tears of merriment coursed down his wrinkled cheeks.

"Oh, dear! Oh, dear!" he finally gasped, sitting up and wiping his
eyes. "This is too rich! It's almost too joyful to be true."

"I don't see anything funny about it," remarked Trot indignantly.

"You would if you'd had my experience," said Pessim, getting upon his
feet and gradually resuming his solemn and dissatisfied expression of
countenance. "The same thing happened to me."

"Oh, did it?  And how did you happen to come to this island?" asked the
girl.

"I didn't come; the neighbors brought me," replied the little man, with
a frown at the recollection. "They said I was quarrelsome and
fault-finding and blamed me because I told them all the things that
went wrong, or never were right, and because I told them how things
ought to be. So they brought me here and left me all alone, saying that
if I quarreled with myself, no one else would be made unhappy. Absurd,
wasn't it?"

"Seems to me," said Cap'n Bill, "those neighbors did the proper thing."

"Well," resumed Pessim, "when I found myself King of this island I was
obliged to live upon fruits, and I found many fruits growing here that
I had never seen before. I tasted several and found them good and
wholesome. But one day I ate a lavender berry--as the Ork did--and
immediately I grew so small that I was scarcely two inches high. It was
a very unpleasant condition and like the Ork I became frightened. I
could not walk very well nor very far, for every lump of earth in my
way seemed a mountain, every blade of grass a tree and every grain of
sand a rocky boulder. For several days I stumbled around in an agony of
fear. Once a tree toad nearly gobbled me up, and if I ran out from the
shelter of the bushes the gulls and cormorants swooped down upon me.
Finally I decided to eat another berry and become nothing at all, since
life, to one as small as I was, had become a dreary nightmare.

"At last I found a small tree that I thought bore the same fruit as
that I had eaten. The berry was dark purple instead of light lavender,
but otherwise it was quite similar. Being unable to climb the tree, I
was obliged to wait underneath it until a sharp breeze arose and shook
the limbs so that a berry fell. Instantly I seized it and taking a last
view of the world--as I then thought--I ate the berry in a twinkling.
Then, to my surprise, I began to grow big again, until I became of my
former stature, and so I have since remained. Needless to say, I have
never eaten again of the lavender fruit, nor do any of the beasts or
birds that live upon this island eat it."

They had all three listened eagerly to this amazing tale, and when it
was finished the Ork exclaimed:

"Do you think, then, that the deep purple berry is the antidote for the
lavender one?"

"I'm sure of it," answered Pessim.

"Then lead me to the tree at once!" begged the Ork, "for this tiny form
I now have terrifies me greatly."

Pessim examined the Ork closely

"You are ugly enough as you are," said he. "Were you any larger you
might be dangerous."

"Oh, no," Trot assured him; "the Ork has been our good friend. Please
take us to the tree."

Then Pessim consented, although rather reluctantly. He led them to the
right, which was the east side of the island, and in a few minutes
brought them near to the edge of the grove which faced the shore of the
ocean. Here stood a small tree bearing berries of a deep purple color.
The fruit looked very enticing and Cap'n Bill reached up and selected
one that seemed especially plump and ripe.

The Ork had remained perched upon Trot's shoulder but now it flew down
to the ground. It was so difficult for Cap'n Bill to kneel down, with
his wooden leg, that the little girl took the berry from him and held
it close to the Ork's head.

"It's too big to go into my mouth," said the little creature, looking
at the fruit sidewise.

"You'll have to make sev'ral mouthfuls of it, I guess," said Trot; and
that is what the Ork did. He pecked at the soft, ripe fruit with his
bill and ate it up very quickly, because it was good.

Even before he had finished the berry they could see the Ork begin to
grow. In a few minutes he had regained his natural size and was
strutting before them, quite delighted with his transformation.

"Well, well! What do you think of me now?" he asked proudly.

"You are very skinny and remarkably ugly," declared Pessim.

"You are a poor judge of Orks," was the reply. "Anyone can see that I'm
much handsomer than those dreadful things called birds, which are all
fluff and feathers."

"Their feathers make soft beds," asserted Pessim. "And my skin would
make excellent drumheads," retorted the Ork. "Nevertheless, a plucked
bird or a skinned Ork would be of no value to himself, so we needn't
brag of our usefulness after we are dead. But for the sake of argument,
friend Pessim, I'd like to know what good you would be, were you not
alive?"

"Never mind that," said Cap'n Bill. "He isn't much good as he is."

"I am King of this Island, allow me to say, and you're intruding on my
property," declared the little man, scowling upon them. "If you don't
like me--and I'm sure you don't, for no one else does--why don't you go
away and leave me to myself?"

"Well, the Ork can fly, but we can't," explained Trot, in answer. "We
don't want to stay here a bit, but I don't see how we can get away."

"You can go back into the hole you came from."

Cap'n Bill shook his head; Trot shuddered at the thought; the Ork
laughed aloud.

"You may be King here," the creature said to Pessim, "but we intend to
run this island to suit ourselves, for we are three and you are one,
and the balance of power lies with us."

The little man made no reply to this, although as they walked back to
the shed his face wore its fiercest scowl. Cap'n Bill gathered a lot of
leaves and, assisted by Trot, prepared two nice beds in opposite
corners of the shed. Pessim slept in a hammock which he swung between
two trees.

They required no dishes, as all their food consisted of fruits and nuts
picked from the trees; they made no fire, for the weather was warm and
there was nothing to cook; the shed had no furniture other than the
rude stool which the little man was accustomed to sit upon. He called
it his "throne" and they let him keep it.

So they lived upon the island for three days, and rested and ate to
their hearts' content. Still, they were not at all happy in this life
because of Pessim. He continually found fault with them, and all that
they did, and all their surroundings. He could see nothing good or
admirable in all the world and Trot soon came to understand why the
little man's former neighbors had brought him to this island and left
him there, all alone, so he could not annoy anyone. It was their
misfortune that they had been led to this place by their adventures,
for often they would have preferred the company of a wild beast to that
of Pessim.

On the fourth day a happy thought came to the Ork. They had all been
racking their brains for a possible way to leave the island, and
discussing this or that method, without finding a plan that was
practical. Cap'n Bill had said he could make a raft of the trees, big
enough to float them all, but he had no tools except those two
pocketknives and it was not possible to chop down tree with such small
blades.

"And s'pose we got afloat on the ocean," said Trot, "where would we
drift to, and how long would it take us to get there?"

Cap'n Bill was forced to admit he didn't know. The Ork could fly away
from the island any time it wished to, but the queer creature was loyal
to his new friends and refused to leave them in such a lonely, forsaken
place.

It was when Trot urged him to go, on this fourth morning, that the Ork
had his happy thought.

"I will go," said he, "if you two will agree to ride upon my back."

"We are too heavy; you might drop us," objected Cap'n Bill.

"Yes, you are rather heavy for a long journey," acknowledged the Ork,
"but you might eat of those lavender berries and become so small that I
could carry you with ease."

This quaint suggestion startled Trot and she looked gravely at the
speaker while she considered it, but Cap'n Bill gave a scornful snort
and asked:

"What would become of us afterward? We wouldn't be much good if we were
some two or three inches high. No, Mr. Ork, I'd rather stay here, as I
am, than be a hop-o'-my-thumb somewhere else."

"Why couldn't you take some of the dark purple berries along with you,
to eat after we had reached our destination?" inquired the Ork. "Then
you could grow big again whenever you pleased."

Trot clapped her hands with delight.

"That's it!" she exclaimed. "Let's do it, Cap'n Bill."

The old sailor did not like the idea at first, but he thought it over
carefully and the more he thought the better it seemed.

"How could you manage to carry us, if we were so small?" he asked.

"I could put you in a paper bag, and tie the bag around my neck."

"But we haven't a paper bag," objected Trot.

The Ork looked at her.

"There's your sunbonnet," it said presently, "which is hollow in the
middle and has two strings that you could tie around my neck."

Trot took off her sunbonnet and regarded it critically. Yes, it might
easily hold both her and Cap'n Bill, after they had eaten the lavender
berries and been reduced in size. She tied the strings around the Ork's
neck and the sunbonnet made a bag in which two tiny people might ride
without danger of falling out. So she said:

"I b'lieve we'll do it that way, Cap'n."

Cap'n Bill groaned but could make no logical objection except that the
plan seemed to him quite dangerous--and dangerous in more ways than one.

"I think so, myself," said Trot soberly. "But nobody can stay alive
without getting into danger sometimes, and danger doesn't mean getting
hurt, Cap'n; it only means we might get hurt. So I guess we'll have to
take the risk."

"Let's go and find the berries," said the Ork.

They said nothing to Pessim, who was sitting on his stool and scowling
dismally as he stared at the ocean, but started at once to seek the
trees that bore the magic fruits. The Ork remembered very well where
the lavender berries grew and led his companions quickly to the spot.

Cap'n Bill gathered two berries and placed them carefully in his
pocket. Then they went around to the east side of the island and found
the tree that bore the dark purple berries.

"I guess I'll take four of these," said the sailor-man, "so in case one
doesn't make us grow big we can eat another."

"Better take six," advised the Ork. "It's well to be on the safe side,
and I'm sure these trees grow nowhere else in all the world."

So Cap'n Bill gathered six of the purple berries and with their
precious fruit they returned to the shed to big good-bye to Pessim.
Perhaps they would not have granted the surly little man this courtesy
had they not wished to use him to tie the sunbonnet around the Ork's
neck.

When Pessim learned they were about to leave him he at first looked
greatly pleased, but he suddenly recollected that nothing ought to
please him and so began to grumble about being left alone.

"We knew it wouldn't suit you," remarked Cap'n Bill. "It didn't suit
you to have us here, and it won't suit you to have us go away."

"That is quite true," admitted Pessim. "I haven't been suited since I
can remember; so it doesn't matter to me in the least whether you go or
stay."

He was interested in their experiment, however, and willingly agreed to
assist, although he prophesied they would fall out of the sunbonnet on
their way and be either drowned in the ocean or crushed upon some rocky
shore. This uncheerful prospect did not daunt Trot, but it made Cap'n
Bill quite nervous.

"I will eat my berry first," said Trot, as she placed her sunbonnet on
the ground, in such manner that they could get into it.

Then she ate the lavender berry and in a few seconds became so small
that Cap'n Bill picked her up gently with his thumb and one finger and
placed her in the middle of the sunbonnet. Then he placed beside her
the six purple berries--each one being about as big as the tiny Trot's
head--and all preparations being now made the old sailor ate his
lavender berry and became very small--wooden leg and all!

Cap'n Bill stumbled sadly in trying to climb over the edge of the
sunbonnet and pitched in beside Trot headfirst, which caused the
unhappy Pessim to laugh with glee. Then the King of the Island picked
up the sunbonnet--so rudely that he shook its occupants like peas in a
pod--and tied it, by means of its strings, securely around the Ork's
neck.

"I hope, Trot, you sewed those strings on tight," said Cap'n Bill
anxiously.

"Why, we are not very heavy, you know," she replied, "so I think the
stitches will hold. But be careful and not crush the berries, Cap'n."

"One is jammed already," he said, looking at them.

"All ready?" asked the Ork.

"Yes!" they cried together, and Pessim came close to the sunbonnet and
called out to them: "You'll be smashed or drowned, I'm sure you will!
But farewell, and good riddance to you."

The Ork was provoked by this unkind speech, so he turned his tail
toward the little man and made it revolve so fast that the rush of air
tumbled Pessim over backward and he rolled several times upon the
ground before he could stop himself and sit up. By that time the Ork
was high in the air and speeding swiftly over the ocean.




Chapter Six

The Flight of the Midgets


Cap'n Bill and Trot rode very comfortably in the sunbonnet.  The motion
was quite steady, for they weighed so little that the Ork flew without
effort. Yet they were both somewhat nervous about their future fate and
could not help wishing they were safe on land and their natural size
again.

"You're terr'ble small, Trot," remarked Cap'n Bill, looking at his
companion.

"Same to you, Cap'n," she said with a laugh; "but as long as we have
the purple berries we needn't worry about our size."

"In a circus," mused the old man, "we'd be curiosities. But in a
sunbonnet--high up in the air--sailin' over a big, unknown ocean--they
ain't no word in any booktionary to describe us."

"Why, we're midgets, that's all," said the little girl. The Ork flew
silently for a long time. The slight swaying of the sunbonnet made
Cap'n Bill drowsy, and he began to doze. Trot, however, was wide awake,
and after enduring the monotonous journey as long as she was able she
called out:

"Don't you see land anywhere, Mr. Ork?"

"Not yet," he answered. "This is a big ocean and I've no idea in which
direction the nearest land to that island lies; but if I keep flying in
a straight line I'm sure to reach some place some time."

That seemed reasonable, so the little people in the sunbonnet remained
as patient as possible; that is, Cap'n Bill dozed and Trot tried to
remember her geography lessons so she could figure out what land they
were likely to arrive at.

For hours and hours the Ork flew steadily, keeping to the straight line
and searching with his eyes the horizon of the ocean for land. Cap'n
Bill was fast asleep and snoring and Trot had laid her head on his
shoulder to rest it when suddenly the Ork exclaimed:

"There! I've caught a glimpse of land, at last."

At this announcement they roused themselves. Cap'n Bill stood up and
tried to peek over the edge of the sunbonnet.

"What does it look like?" he inquired.

"Looks like another island," said the Ork; "but I can judge it better
in a minute or two."

"I don't care much for islands, since we visited that other one,"
declared Trot.

Soon the Ork made another announcement.

"It is surely an island, and a little one, too," said he. "But I won't
stop, because I see a much bigger land straight ahead of it."

"That's right," approved Cap'n Bill. "The bigger the land, the better
it will suit us."

"It's almost a continent," continued the Ork after a brief silence,
during which he did not decrease the speed of his flight. "I wonder if
it can be Orkland, the place I have been seeking so long?"

"I hope not," whispered Trot to Cap'n Bill--so softly that the Ork
could not hear her--"for I shouldn't like to be in a country where only
Orks live. This one Ork isn't a bad companion, but a lot of him
wouldn't be much fun."

After a few more minutes of flying the Ork called out in a sad voice:

"No! this is not my country. It's a place I have never seen before,
although I have wandered far and wide. It seems to be all mountains and
deserts and green valleys and queer cities and lakes and rivers--mixed
up in a very puzzling way."

"Most countries are like that," commented Cap'n Bill. "Are you going to
land?"

"Pretty soon," was the reply. "There is a mountain peak just ahead of
me. What do you say to our landing on that?"

"All right," agreed the sailor-man, for both he and Trot were getting
tired of riding in the sunbonnet and longed to set foot on solid ground
again.

So in a few minutes the Ork slowed down his speed and then came to a
stop so easily that they were scarcely jarred at all. Then the creature
squatted down until the sunbonnet rested on the ground, and began
trying to unfasten with its claws the knotted strings.

This proved a very clumsy task, because the strings were tied at the
back of the Ork's neck, just where his claws would not easily reach.
After much fumbling he said:

"I'm afraid I can't let you out, and there is no one near to help me."

This was at first discouraging, but after a little thought Cap'n Bill
said:

"If you don't mind, Trot, I can cut a slit in your sunbonnet with my
knife."

"Do," she replied. "The slit won't matter, 'cause I can sew it up again
afterward, when I am big."

So Cap'n Bill got out his knife, which was just as small, in
proportion, as he was, and after considerable trouble managed to cut a
long slit in the sunbonnet. First he squeezed through the opening
himself and then helped Trot to get out.

When they stood on firm ground again their first act was to begin
eating the dark purple berries which they had brought with them. Two of
these Trot had guarded carefully during the long journey, by holding
them in her lap, for their safety meant much to the tiny people.

"I'm not very hungry," said the little girl as she handed a berry to
Cap'n Bill, "but hunger doesn't count, in this case. It's like taking
medicine to make you well, so we must manage to eat 'em, somehow or
other."

But the berries proved quite pleasant to taste and as Cap'n Bill and
Trot nibbled at their edges their forms began to grow in size--slowly
but steadily. The bigger they grew the easier it was for them to eat
the berries, which of course became smaller to them, and by the time
the fruit was eaten our friends had regained their natural size.

The little girl was greatly relieved when she found herself as large as
she had ever been, and Cap'n Bill shared her satisfaction; for,
although they had seen the effect of the berries on the Ork, they had
not been sure the magic fruit would have the same effect on human
beings, or that the magic would work in any other country than that in
which the berries grew.

"What shall we do with the other four berries?" asked Trot, as she
picked up her sunbonnet, marveling that she had ever been small enough
to ride in it. "They're no good to us now, are they, Cap'n?"

"I'm not sure as to that," he replied. "If they were eaten by one who
had never eaten the lavender berries, they might have no effect at all;
but then, contrarywise, they might. One of 'em has got badly jammed, so
I'll throw it away, but the other three I b'lieve I'll carry with me.
They're magic things, you know, and may come handy to us some time."

He now searched in his big pockets and drew out a small wooden box with
a sliding cover.  The sailor had kept an assortment of nails, of
various sizes, in this box, but those he now dumped loosely into his
pocket and in the box placed the three sound purple berries.

When this important matter was attended to they found time to look
about them and see what sort of place the Ork had landed them in.




Chapter Seven

The Bumpy Man


The mountain on which they had alighted was not a barren waste, but had
on its sides patches of green grass, some bushes, a few slender trees
and here and there masses of tumbled rocks. The sides of the slope
seemed rather steep, but with care one could climb up or down them with
ease and safety. The view from where they now stood showed pleasant
valleys and fertile hills lying below the heights. Trot thought she saw
some houses of queer shapes scattered about the lower landscape, and
there were moving dots that might be people or animals, yet were too
far away for her to see them clearly.

Not far from the place where they stood was the top of the mountain,
which seemed to be flat, so the Ork proposed to his companions that he
would fly up and see what was there.

"That's a good idea," said Trot, "'cause it's getting toward evening
and we'll have to find a place to sleep."

The Ork had not been gone more than a few minutes when they saw him
appear on the edge of the top which was nearest them.

"Come on up!" he called.

So Trot and Cap'n Bill began to ascend the steep slope and it did not
take them long to reach the place where the Ork awaited them.

Their first view of the mountain top pleased them very much. It was a
level space of wider extent than they had guessed and upon it grew
grass of a brilliant green color. In the very center stood a house
built of stone and very neatly constructed. No one was in sight, but
smoke was coming from the chimney, so with one accord all three began
walking toward the house.

"I wonder," said Trot, "in what country we are, and if it's very far
from my home in California."

"Can't say as to that, partner," answered Cap'n Bill, "but I'm mighty
certain we've come a long way since we struck that whirlpool."

"Yes," she agreed, with a sigh, "it must be miles and miles!"

"Distance means nothing," said the Ork. "I have flown pretty much all
over the world, trying to find my home, and it is astonishing how many
little countries there are, hidden away in the cracks and corners of
this big globe of Earth. If one travels, he may find some new country
at every turn, and a good many of them have never yet been put upon the
maps."

"P'raps this is one of them," suggested Trot.

They reached the house after a brisk walk and Cap'n Bill knocked upon
the door. It was at once opened by a rugged looking man who had "bumps
all over him," as Trot afterward declared. There were bumps on his
head, bumps on his body and bumps on his arms and legs and hands. Even
his fingers had bumps on the ends of them. For dress he wore an old
gray suit of fantastic design, which fitted him very badly because of
the bumps it covered but could not conceal.

But the Bumpy Man's eyes were kind and twinkling in expression and as
soon as he saw his visitors he bowed low and said in a rather bumpy
voice:

"Happy day!  Come in and shut the door, for it grows cool when the sun
goes down. Winter is now upon us."

"Why, it isn't cold a bit, outside," said Trot, "so it can't be winter
yet."

"You will change your mind about that in a little while," declared the
Bumpy Man. "My bumps always tell me the state of the weather, and they
feel just now as if a snowstorm was coming this way. But make
yourselves at home, strangers. Supper is nearly ready and there is food
enough for all."

Inside the house there was but one large room, simply but comfortably
furnished. It had benches, a table and a fireplace, all made of stone.
On the hearth a pot was bubbling and steaming, and Trot thought it had
a rather nice smell. The visitors seated themselves upon the
benches--except the Ork. which squatted by the fireplace--and the Bumpy
Man began stirring the kettle briskly.

"May I ask what country this is, sir?" inquired Cap'n Bill.

"Goodness me--fruit-cake and apple-sauce!--don't you know where you
are?" asked the Bumpy Man, as he stopped stirring and looked at the
speaker in surprise.

"No," admitted Cap'n Bill. "We've just arrived."

"Lost your way?" questioned the Bumpy Man.

"Not exactly," said Cap'n Bill. "We didn't have any way to lose."

"Ah!" said the Bumpy Man, nodding his bumpy head. "This," he announced,
in a solemn, impressive voice, "is the famous Land of Mo."

"Oh!" exclaimed the sailor and the girl, both in one breath. But, never
having heard of the Land of Mo, they were no wiser than before.

"I thought that would startle you," remarked the Bumpy Man, well
pleased, as he resumed his stirring. The Ork watched him a while in
silence and then asked:

"Who may you be?"

"Me?" answered the Bumpy Man. "Haven't you heard of me? Gingerbread and
lemon-juice! I'm known, far and wide, as the Mountain Ear."

They all received this information in silence at first, for they were
trying to think what he could mean. Finally Trot mustered up courage to
ask:

"What is a Mountain Ear, please?"

For answer the man turned around and faced them, waving the spoon with
which he had been stirring the kettle, as he recited the following
verses in a singsong tone of voice:

  "Here's a mountain, hard of hearing,
  That's sad-hearted and needs cheering,
  So my duty is to listen to all sounds that Nature makes,
  So the hill won't get uneasy--
  Get to coughing, or get sneezy--
  For this monster bump, when frightened, is quite liable to quakes.

  "You can hear a bell that's ringing;
  I can feel some people's singing;
  But a mountain isn't sensible of what goes on, and so
  When I hear a blizzard blowing
  Or it's raining hard, or snowing,
  I tell it to the mountain and the mountain seems to know.

  "Thus I benefit all people
  While I'm living on this steeple,
  For I keep the mountain steady so my neighbors all may thrive.
  With my list'ning and my shouting
  I prevent this mount from spouting,
  And that makes me so important that I'm glad that I'm alive."


When he had finished these lines of verse the Bumpy Man turned again to
resume his stirring. The Ork laughed softly and Cap'n Bill whistled to
himself and Trot made up her mind that the Mountain Ear must be a
little crazy. But the Bumpy Man seemed satisfied that he had explained
his position fully and presently he placed four stone plates upon the
table and then lifted the kettle from the fire and poured some of its
contents on each of the plates. Cap'n Bill and Trot at once approached
the table, for they were hungry, but when she examined her plate the
little girl exclaimed:

"Why, it's molasses candy!"

"To be sure," returned the Bumpy Man, with a pleasant smile. "Eat it
quick, while it's hot, for it cools very quickly this winter weather."

With this he seized a stone spoon and began putting the hot molasses
candy into his mouth, while the others watched him in astonishment.

"Doesn't it burn you?" asked the girl.

"No indeed," said he. "Why don't you eat? Aren't you hungry?"

"Yes," she replied, "I am hungry. But we usually eat our candy when it
is cold and hard. We always pull molasses candy before we eat it."

"Ha, ha, ha!" laughed the Mountain Ear. "What a funny idea! Where in
the world did you come from?"

"California," she said.

"California! Pooh! there isn't any such place. I've heard of every
place in the Land of Mo, but I never before heard of California."

"It isn't in the Land of Mo," she explained.

"Then it isn't worth talking about," declared the Bumpy Man, helping
himself again from the steaming kettle, for he had been eating all the
time he talked.

"For my part," sighed Cap'n Bill, "I'd like a decent square meal, once
more, just by way of variety. In the last place there was nothing but
fruit to eat, and here it's worse, for there's nothing but candy."

"Molasses candy isn't so bad," said Trot. "Mine's nearly cool enough to
pull, already. Wait a bit, Cap'n, and you can eat it."

A little later she was able to gather the candy from the stone plate
and begin to work it back and forth with her hands. The Mountain Ear
was greatly amazed at this and watched her closely. It was really good
candy and pulled beautifully, so that Trot was soon ready to cut it
into chunks for eating.

Cap'n Bill condescended to eat one or two pieces and the Ork ate
several, but the Bumpy Man refused to try it. Trot finished the plate
of candy herself and then asked for a drink of water.

"Water?" said the Mountain Ear wonderingly. "What is that?"

"Something to drink. Don't you have water in Mo?"

"None that ever I heard of," said he. "But I can give you some fresh
lemonade. I caught it in a jar the last time it rained, which was only
day before yesterday."

"Oh, does it rain lemonade here?" she inquired.

"Always; and it is very refreshing and healthful."

With this he brought from a cupboard a stone jar and a dipper, and the
girl found it very nice lemonade, indeed. Cap'n Bill liked it, too; but
the Ork would not touch it.

"If there is no water in this country, I cannot stay here for long,"
the creature declared. "Water means life to man and beast and bird."

"There must be water in lemonade," said Trot.

"Yes," answered the Ork, "I suppose so; but there are other things in
it, too, and they spoil the good water."

The day's adventures had made our wanderers tired, so the Bumpy Man
brought them some blankets in which they rolled themselves and then lay
down before the fire, which their host kept alive with fuel all through
the night. Trot wakened several times and found the Mountain Ear always
alert and listening intently for the slightest sound. But the little
girl could hear no sound at all except the snores of Cap'n Bill.




Chapter Eight

Button-Bright is Lost and Found Again


"Wake up--wake up!" called the voice of the Bumpy Man. "Didn't I tell
you winter was coming? I could hear it coming with my left ear, and the
proof is that it is now snowing hard outside."

"Is it?" said Trot, rubbing her eyes and creeping out of her blanket.
"Where I live, in California, I have never seen snow, except far away
on the tops of high mountains."

"Well, this is the top of a high mountain," returned the bumpy one,
"and for that reason we get our heaviest snowfalls right here."

The little girl went to  the window and looked out. The air was filled
with falling white flakes, so large in size and so queer in form that
she was puzzled.

"Are you certain this is snow?" she asked.

"To be sure. I must get my snow-shovel and turn out to shovel a path.
Would you like to come with me?"

"Yes," she said, and followed the Bumpy Man out when he opened the
door. Then she exclaimed: "Why, it isn't cold a bit!"

"Of course not," replied the man. "It was cold last night, before the
snowstorm; but snow, when it falls, is always crisp and warm."

Trot gathered a handful of it.

"Why, it's popcorn?" she cried.

"Certainly; all snow is popcorn. What did you expect it to be?"

"Popcorn is not snow in my country."

"Well, it is the only snow we have in the Land of Mo, so you may as
well make the best of it," said he, a little impatiently. "I'm not
responsible for the absurd things that happen in your country, and when
you're in Mo you must do as the Momen do. Eat some of our snow, and you
will find it is good. The only fault I find with our snow is that we
get too much of it at times."

With this the Bumpy Man set to work shoveling a path and he was so
quick and industrious that he piled up the popcorn in great banks on
either side of the trail that led to the mountain-top from the plains
below. While he worked, Trot ate popcorn and found it crisp and
slightly warm, as well as nicely salted and buttered. Presently Cap'n
Bill came out of the house and joined her.

"What's this?" he asked.

"Mo snow," said she. "But it isn't real snow, although it falls from
the sky. It's popcorn."

Cap'n Bill tasted it; then he sat down in the path and began to eat.
The Ork came out and pecked away with its bill as fast as it could.
They all liked popcorn and they all were hungry this morning.

Meantime the flakes of "Mo snow" came down so fast that the number of
them almost darkened the air. The Bumpy Man was now shoveling quite a
distance down the mountain-side, while the path behind him rapidly
filled up with fresh-fallen popcorn. Suddenly Trot heard him call out:

"Goodness gracious--mince pie and pancakes!--here is some one buried in
the snow."

She ran toward him at once and the others followed, wading through the
corn and crunching it underneath their feet. The Mo snow was pretty
deep where the Bumpy Man was shoveling and from beneath a great bank of
it he had uncovered a pair of feet.

"Dear me!  Someone has been lost in the storm," said Cap'n Bill. "I
hope he is still alive. Let's pull him out and see."

He took hold of one foot and the Bumpy Man took hold of the other. Then
they both pulled and out from the heap of popcorn came a little boy. He
was dressed in a brown velvet jacket and knickerbockers, with brown
stockings, buckled shoes and a blue shirt-waist that had frills down
its front. When drawn from the heap the boy was chewing a mouthful of
popcorn and both his hands were full of it. So at first he couldn't
speak to his rescuers but lay quite still and eyed them calmly until he
had swallowed his mouthful. Then he said:

"Get my cap," and stuffed more popcorn into his mouth.

While the Bumpy Man began shoveling into the corn-bank to find the
boy's cap, Trot was laughing joyfully and Cap'n Bill had a broad grin
on his face. The Ork looked from one to another and asked:

"Who is this stranger?"

"Why, it's Button-Bright, of course," answered Trot. "If anyone ever
finds a lost boy, he can make up his mind it's Button-Bright. But how
he ever came to be lost in this far-away country is more'n I can make
out."

"Where does he belong?" inquired the Ork.

"His home used to be in Philadelphia, I think; but I'm quite sure
Button-Bright doesn't belong anywhere."

"That's right," said the boy, nodding his head as he swallowed the
second mouthful.

"Everyone belongs somewhere," remarked the Ork.

"Not me," insisted Button-Bright. "I'm half way round the world from
Philadelphia, and I've lost my Magic Umbrella, that used to carry me
anywhere. Stands to reason that if I can't get back I haven't any home.
But I don't care much. This is a pretty good country, Trot. I've had
lots of fun here."

By this time the Mountain Ear had secured the boy's cap and was
listening to the conversation with much interest.

"It seems you know this poor, snow-covered cast-away," he said.

"Yes, indeed," answered Trot.  "We made a journey together to Sky
Island, once, and were good friends."

"Well, then I'm glad I saved his life," said the Bumpy Man.

"Much obliged, Mr. Knobs," said Button-Bright, sitting up and staring
at him, "but I don't believe you've saved anything except some popcorn
that I might have eaten had you not disturbed me. It was nice and warm
in that bank of popcorn, and there was plenty to eat. What made you dig
me out? And what makes you so bumpy everywhere?"

"As for the bumps," replied the man, looking at himself with much
pride, "I was born with them and I suspect they were a gift from the
fairies. They make me look rugged and big, like the mountain I serve."

"All right," said Button-Bright and began eating popcorn again.

It had stopped snowing, now, and great flocks of birds were gathering
around the mountain-side, eating the popcorn with much eagerness and
scarcely noticing the people at all. There were birds of every size and
color, most of them having gorgeous feathers and plumes.

"Just look at them!" exclaimed the Ork scornfully. "Aren't they
dreadful creatures, all covered with feathers?"

"I think they're beautiful," said Trot, and this made the Ork so
indignant that he went back into the house and sulked.

Button-Bright reached out his hand and caught a big bird by the leg. At
once it rose into the air and it was so strong that it nearly carried
the little boy with it. He let go the leg in a hurry and the bird flew
down again and began to eat of the popcorn, not being frightened in the
least.

This gave Cap'n Bill an idea. He felt in his pocket and drew out
several pieces of stout string. Moving very quietly, so as to not alarm
the birds, he crept up to several of the biggest ones and tied cords
around their legs, thus making them prisoners.  The birds were so
intent on their eating that they did not notice what had happened to
them, and when about twenty had been captured in this manner Cap'n Bill
tied the ends of all the strings together and fastened them to a huge
stone, so they could not escape.

The Bumpy Man watched the old sailor's actions with much curiosity.

"The birds will be quiet until they've eaten up all the snow," he said,
"but then they will want to fly away to their homes. Tell me, sir, what
will the poor things do when they find they can't fly?"

"It may worry 'em a little," replied Cap'n Bill, "but they're not going
to be hurt if they take it easy and behave themselves."

Our friends had all made a good breakfast of the delicious popcorn and
now they walked toward the house again. Button-Bright walked beside
Trot and held her hand in his, because they were old friends and he
liked the little girl very much. The boy was not so old as Trot, and
small as she was he was half a head shorter in height. The most
remarkable thing about Button-Bright was that he was always quiet and
composed, whatever happened, and nothing was ever able to astonish him.
Trot liked him because he was not rude and never tried to plague her.
Cap'n Bill liked him because he had found the boy cheerful and brave at
all times, and willing to do anything he was asked to do.

When they came to the house Trot sniffed the air and asked "Don't I
smell perfume?"

"I think you do," said the Bumpy Man. "You smell violets, and that
proves there is a breeze springing up from the south. All our winds and
breezes are perfumed and for that reason we are glad to have them blow
in our direction. The south breeze always has a violet odor; the north
breeze has the fragrance of wild roses; the east breeze is perfumed
with lilies-of-the-valley and the west wind with lilac blossoms. So we
need no weathervane to tell us which way the wind is blowing. We have
only to smell the perfume and it informs us at once."

Inside the house they found the Ork, and Button-Bright regarded the
strange, birdlike creature with curious interest. After examining it
closely for a time he asked:

"Which way does your tail whirl?"

"Either way," said the Ork.

Button-Bright put out his hand and tried to spin it.

"Don't do that!" exclaimed the Ork.

"Why not?" inquired the boy.

"Because it happens to be my tail, and I reserve the right to whirl it
myself," explained the Ork.

"Let's go out and fly somewhere," proposed Button-Bright. "I want to
see how the tail works."

"Not now," said the Ork. "I appreciate your interest in me, which I
fully deserve; but I only fly when I am going somewhere, and if I got
started I might not stop."

"That reminds me," remarked Cap'n Bill, "to ask you, friend Ork, how we
are going to get away from here?"

"Get away!" exclaimed the Bumpy Man. "Why don't you stay here? You
won't find any nicer place than Mo."

"Have you been anywhere else, sir?"

"No; I can't say that I have," admitted the Mountain Ear.

"Then permit me to say you're no judge," declared Cap'n Bill. "But you
haven't answered my question, friend Ork. How are we to get away from
this mountain?"

The Ork reflected a while before he answered.

"I might carry one of you--the boy or the girl--upon my back," said he,
"but three big people are more than I can manage, although I have
carried two of you for a short distance. You ought not to have eaten
those purple berries so soon."

"P'r'aps we did make a mistake," Cap'n Bill acknowledged.

"Or we might have brought some of those lavender berries with us,
instead of so many purple ones," suggested Trot regretfully.

Cap'n Bill made no reply to this statement, which showed he did not
fully agree with the little girl; but he fell into deep thought, with
wrinkled brows, and finally he said:

"If those purple berries would make anything grow bigger, whether it'd
eaten the lavender ones or not, I could find a way out of our troubles."

They did not understand this speech and looked at the old sailor as if
expecting him to explain what he meant. But just then a chorus of
shrill cries rose from outside.

"Here! Let me go--let me go!" the voices seemed to say. "Why are we
insulted in this way? Mountain Ear, come and help us!"

Trot ran to the window and looked out.

"It's the birds you caught, Cap'n," she said. "I didn't know they could
talk."

"Oh, yes; all the birds in Mo are educated to talk," said the Bumpy
Man. Then he looked at Cap'n Bill uneasily and added: "Won't you let
the poor things go?"

"I'll see," replied the sailor, and walked out to where the birds were
fluttering and complaining because the strings would not allow them to
fly away.

"Listen to me!" he cried, and at once they became still. "We three
people who are strangers in your land want to go to some other country,
and we want three of you birds to carry us there. We know we are asking
a great favor, but it's the only way we can think of--excep' walkin',
an' I'm not much good at that because I've a wooden leg. Besides, Trot
an' Button-Bright are too small to undertake a long and tiresome
journey. Now, tell me: Which three of you birds will consent to carry
us?"

The birds looked at one another as if greatly astonished. Then one of
them replied: "You must be crazy, old man. Not one of us is big enough
to fly with even the smallest of your party."

"I'll fix the matter of size," promised Cap'n Bill. "If three of you
will agree to carry us, I'll make you big an' strong enough to do it,
so it won't worry you a bit."

The birds considered this gravely.  Living in a magic country, they had
no doubt but that the strange one-legged man could do what he said.
After a little, one of them asked:

"If you make us big, would we stay big always?"

"I think so," replied Cap'n Bill.

They chattered a while among themselves and then the bird that had
first spoken said: "I'll go, for one."

"So will I," said another; and after a pause a third said: "I'll go,
too."

Perhaps more would have volunteered, for it seemed that for some reason
they all longed to be bigger than they were; but three were enough for
Cap'n Bill's purpose and so he promptly released all the others, who
immediately flew away.

The three that remained were cousins, and all were of the same
brilliant plumage and in size about as large as eagles. When Trot
questioned them she found they were quite young, having only abandoned
their nests a few weeks before. They were strong young birds, with
clear, brave eyes, and the little girl decided they were the most
beautiful of all the feathered creatures she had ever seen.

Cap'n Bill now took from his pocket the wooden box with the sliding
cover and removed the three purple berries, which were still in good
condition.

"Eat these," he said, and gave one to each of the birds. They obeyed,
finding the fruit very pleasant to taste. In a few seconds they began
to grow in size and grew so fast that Trot feared they would never
stop. But they finally did stop growing, and then they were much larger
than the Ork, and nearly the size of full-grown ostriches.

Cap'n Bill was much pleased by this result.

"You can carry us now, all right," said he.

The birds strutted around with pride, highly pleased with their immense
size.

"I don't see, though," said Trot doubtfully, "how we're going to ride
on their backs without falling off."

"We're not going to ride on their backs," answered Cap'n Bill. "I'm
going to make swings for us to ride in."

He then asked the Bumpy Man for some rope, but the man had no rope. He
had, however, an old suit of gray clothes which he gladly presented to
Cap'n Bill, who cut the cloth into strips and twisted it so that it was
almost as strong as rope. With this material he attached to each bird a
swing that dangled below its feet, and Button-Bright made a trial
flight in one of them to prove that it was safe and comfortable. When
all this had been arranged one of the birds asked:

"Where do you wish us to take you?"

"Why, just follow the Ork," said Cap'n Bill. "He will be our leader,
and wherever the Ork flies you are to fly, and wherever the Ork lands
you are to land. Is that satisfactory?"

The birds declared it was quite satisfactory, so Cap'n Bill took
counsel with the Ork.

"On our way here," said that peculiar creature, "I noticed a broad,
sandy desert at the left of me, on which was no living thing."

"Then we'd better keep away from it," replied the sailor.

"Not so," insisted the Ork. "I have found, on my travels, that the most
pleasant countries often lie in the midst of deserts; so I think it
would be wise for us to fly over this desert and discover what lies
beyond it. For in the direction we came from lies the ocean, as we well
know, and beyond here is this strange Land of Mo, which we do not care
to explore. On one side, as we can see from this mountain, is a broad
expanse of plain, and on the other the desert.  For my part, I vote for
the desert."

"What do you say, Trot?" inquired Cap'n Bill.

"It's all the same to me," she replied.

No one thought of asking Button-Bright's opinion, so it was decided to
fly over the desert. They bade good-bye to the Bumpy Man and thanked
him for his kindness and hospitality. Then they seated themselves in
the swings--one for each bird--and told the Ork to start away and they
would follow.

The whirl of the Ork's tail astonished the birds at first, but after he
had gone a short distance they rose in the air, carrying their
passengers easily, and flew with strong, regular strokes of their great
wings in the wake of their leader.




Chapter Nine

The Kingdom of Jinxland


Trot rode with more comfort than she had expected, although the swing
swayed so much that she had to hold on tight with both hands. Cap'n
Bill's bird followed the Ork, and Trot came next, with Button-Bright
trailing behind her. It was quite an imposing procession, but
unfortunately there was no one to see it, for the Ork had headed
straight for the great sandy desert and in a few minutes after starting
they were flying high over the broad waste, where no living thing could
exist.

The little girl thought this would be a bad place for the birds to lose
strength, or for the cloth ropes to give way; but although she could
not help feeling a trifle nervous and fidgety she had confidence in the
huge and brilliantly plumaged bird that bore her, as well as in Cap'n
Bill's knowledge of how to twist and fasten a rope so it would hold.

That was a remarkably big desert. There was nothing to relieve the
monotony of view and every minute seemed an hour and every hour a day.
Disagreeable fumes and gases rose from the sands, which would have been
deadly to the travelers had they not been so high in the air. As it
was, Trot was beginning to feel sick, when a breath of fresher air
filled her nostrils and on looking ahead she saw a great cloud of
pink-tinted mist. Even while she wondered what it could be, the Ork
plunged boldly into the mist and the other birds followed. She could
see nothing for a time, nor could the bird which carried her see where
the Ork had gone, but it kept flying as sturdily as ever and in a few
moments the mist was passed and the girl saw a most beautiful landscape
spread out below her, extending as far as her eye could reach.

She saw bits of forest, verdure clothed hills, fields of waving grain,
fountains, rivers and lakes; and throughout the scene were scattered
groups of pretty houses and a few grand castles and palaces.

Over all this delightful landscape--which from Trot's high perch seemed
like a magnificent painted picture--was a rosy glow such as we
sometimes see in the west at sunset. In this case, however, it was not
in the west only, but everywhere.

No wonder the Ork paused to circle slowly over this lovely country. The
other birds followed his action, all eyeing the place with equal
delight. Then, as with one accord, the four formed a group and slowly
sailed downward. This brought them to that part of the newly-discovered
land which bordered on the desert's edge; but it was just as pretty
here as anywhere, so the Ork and the birds alighted and the three
passengers at once got out of their swings.

"Oh, Cap'n Bill, isn't this fine an' dandy?" exclaimed Trot
rapturously. "How lucky we were to discover this beautiful country!"

"The country seems rather high class, I'll admit, Trot," replied the
old sailor-man, looking around him, "but we don't know, as yet, what
its people are like."

"No one could live in such a country without being happy and good--I'm
sure of that," she said earnestly. "Don't you think so, Button-Bright?"

"I'm not thinking, just now," answered the little boy. "It tires me to
think, and I never seem to gain anything by it. When we see the people
who live here we will know what they are like, and no 'mount of
thinking will make them any different."

"That's true enough," said the Ork. "But now I want to make a proposal.
While you are getting acquainted with this new country, which looks as
if it contains everything to make one happy, I would like to fly
along--all by myself--and see if I can find my home on the other side
of the great desert. If I do, I will stay there, of course. But if I
fail to find Orkland I will return to you in a week, to see if I can do
anything more to assist you."

They were sorry to lose their queer companion, but could offer no
objection to the plan; so the Ork bade them good-bye and rising swiftly
in the air, he flew over the country and was soon lost to view in the
distance.

The three birds which had carried our friends now begged permission to
return by the way they had come, to their own homes, saying they were
anxious to show their families how big they had become. So Cap'n Bill
and Trot and Button-Bright all thanked them gratefully for their
assistance and soon the birds began their long flight toward the Land
of Mo. Being now left to themselves in this strange land, the three
comrades selected a pretty pathway and began walking along it. They
believed this path would lead them to a splendid castle which they
espied in the distance, the turrets of which towered far above the tops
of the trees which surrounded it. It did not seem very far away, so
they sauntered on slowly, admiring the beautiful ferns and flowers that
lined the pathway and listening to the singing of the birds and the
soft chirping of the grasshoppers.

Presently the path wound over a little hill. In a valley that lay
beyond the hill was a tiny cottage surrounded by flower beds and fruit
trees. On the shady porch of the cottage they saw, as they approached,
a pleasant faced woman sitting amidst a group of children, to whom she
was telling stories. The children quickly discovered the strangers and
ran toward them with exclamations of astonishment, so that Trot and her
friends became the center of a curious group, all chattering excitedly.
Cap'n Bill's wooden leg seemed to arouse the wonder of the children, as
they could not understand why he had not two meat legs. This attention
seemed to please the old sailor, who patted the heads of the children
kindly and then, raising his hat to the woman, he inquired:

"Can you tell us, madam, just what country this is?"

She stared hard at all three of the strangers as she replied briefly:
"Jinxland."

"Oh!" exclaimed Cap'n Bill, with a puzzled look. "And where is
Jinxland, please?"

"In the Quadling Country," said she.

"What!" cried Trot, in sudden excitement. "Do you mean to say this is
the Quadling Country of the Land of Oz?"

"To be sure I do," the woman answered. "Every bit of land that is
surrounded by the great desert is the Land of Oz, as you ought to know
as well as I do; but I'm sorry to say that Jinxland is separated from
the rest of the Quadling Country by that row of high mountains you see
yonder, which have such steep sides that no one can cross them. So we
live here all by ourselves, and are ruled by our own King, instead of
by Ozma of Oz."

"I've been to the Land of Oz before," said Button-Bright, "but I've
never been here."

"Did you ever hear of Jinxland before?" asked Trot.

"No," said Button-Bright.

"It is on the Map of Oz, though," asserted the woman, "and it's a fine
country, I assure you. If only," she added, and then paused to look
around her with a frightened expression. "If only--" here she stopped
again, as if not daring to go on with her speech.

"If only what, ma'am?" asked Cap'n Bill.

The woman sent the children into the house. Then she came closer to the
strangers and whispered: "If only we had a different King, we would be
very happy and contented."

"What's the matter with your King?" asked Trot, curiously. But the
woman seemed frightened to have said so much. She retreated to her
porch, merely saying:

"The King punishes severely any treason on the part of his subjects."

"What's treason?" asked Button-Bright.

"In this case," replied Cap'n Bill, "treason seems to consist of
knockin' the King; but I guess we know his disposition now as well as
if the lady had said more."

"I wonder," said Trot, going up to the woman, "if you could spare us
something to eat. We haven't had anything but popcorn and lemonade for
a long time."

"Bless your heart! Of course I can spare you some food," the woman
answered, and entering her cottage she soon returned with a tray loaded
with sandwiches, cakes and cheese. One of the children drew a bucket of
clear, cold water from a spring and the three wanderers ate heartily
and enjoyed the good things immensely.

When Button-Bright could eat no more he filled the pockets of his
jacket with cakes and cheese, and not even the children objected to
this. Indeed they all seemed pleased to see the strangers eat, so Cap'n
Bill decided that no matter what the King of Jinxland was like, the
people would prove friendly and hospitable.

"Whose castle is that, yonder, ma'am?" he asked, waving his hand toward
the towers that rose above the trees.

"It belongs to his Majesty, King Krewl." she said.

"Oh, indeed; and does he live there?"

"When he is not out hunting with his fierce courtiers and war
captains," she replied.

"Is he hunting now?" Trot inquired.

"I do not know, my dear. The less we know about the King's actions the
safer we are."

It was evident the woman did not like to talk about King Krewl and so,
having finished their meal, they said good-bye and continued along the
pathway.

"Don't you think we'd better keep away from that King's castle, Cap'n?"
asked Trot.

"Well," said he, "King Krewl would find out, sooner or later, that we
are in his country, so we may as well face the music now. Perhaps he
isn't quite so bad as that woman thinks he is. Kings aren't always
popular with their people, you know, even if they do the best they know
how."

"Ozma is pop'lar," said Button-Bright.

"Ozma is diff'rent from any other Ruler, from all I've heard," remarked
Trot musingly, as she walked beside the boy. "And, after all, we are
really in the Land of Oz, where Ozma rules ev'ry King and ev'rybody
else. I never heard of anybody getting hurt in her dominions, did you,
Button-Bright?"

"Not when she knows about it," he replied. "But those birds landed us
in just the wrong place, seems to me. They might have carried us right
on, over that row of mountains, to the Em'rald City."

"True enough," said Cap'n Bill; "but they didn't, an' so we must make
the best of Jinxland. Let's try not to be afraid."

"Oh, I'm not very scared," said Button-Bright, pausing to look at a
pink rabbit that popped its head out of a hole in the field near by.

"Nor am I," added Trot. "Really, Cap'n, I'm so glad to be anywhere at
all in the wonderful fairyland of Oz that I think I'm the luckiest girl
in all the world. Dorothy lives in the Em'rald City, you know, and so
does the Scarecrow and the Tin Woodman and Tik-Tok and the Shaggy
Man--and all the rest of 'em that we've heard so much about--not to
mention Ozma, who must be the sweetest and loveliest girl in all the
world!"

"Take your time, Trot," advised Button-Bright. "You don't have to say
it all in one breath, you know. And you haven't mentioned half of the
curious people in the Em'rald City."

"That 'ere Em'rald City," said Cap'n Bill impressively, "happens to be
on the other side o' those mountains, that we're told no one is able to
cross. I don't want to discourage of you, Trot, but we're a'most as
much separated from your Ozma an' Dorothy as we were when we lived in
Californy."

There was so much truth in this statement that they all walked on in
silence for some time. Finally they reached the grove of stately trees
that bordered the grounds of the King's castle. They had gone halfway
through it when the sound of sobbing, as of someone in bitter distress,
reached their ears and caused them to halt abruptly.




Chapter Ten

Pon, the Gardener's Boy


It was Button-Bright who first discovered, lying on his face beneath a
broad spreading tree near the pathway, a young man whose body shook
with the force of his sobs. He was dressed in a long brown smock and
had sandals on his feet, betokening one in humble life. His head was
bare and showed a shock of brown, curly hair. Button-Bright looked down
on the young man and said:

"Who cares, anyhow?"

"I do!" cried the young man, interrupting his sobs to roll over, face
upward, that he might see who had spoken. "I care, for my heart is
broken!"

"Can't you get another one?" asked the little boy.

"I don't want another!" wailed the young man.

By this time Trot and Cap'n Bill arrived at the spot and the girl
leaned over and said in a sympathetic voice:

"Tell us your troubles and perhaps we may help you."

The youth sat up, then, and bowed politely. Afterward he got upon his
feet, but still kept wringing his hands as he tried to choke down his
sobs. Trot thought he was very brave to control such awful agony so
well.

"My name is Pon," he began. "I'm the gardener's boy."

"Then the gardener of the King is your father, I suppose," said Trot.

"Not my father, but my master," was the reply

"I do the work and the gardener gives the orders. And it was not my
fault, in the least, that the Princess Gloria fell in love with me."

"Did she, really?" asked the little girl.

"I don't see why," remarked Button-Bright, staring at the youth.

"And who may the Princess Gloria be?" inquired Cap'n Bill.

"She is the niece of King Krewl, who is her guardian. The Princess
lives in the castle and is the loveliest and sweetest maiden in all
Jinxland. She is fond of flowers and used to walk in the gardens with
her attendants. At such times, if I was working at my tasks, I used to
cast down my eyes as Gloria passed me; but one day I glanced up and
found her gazing at me with a very tender look in her eyes. The next
day she dismissed her attendants and, coming to my side, began to talk
with me. She said I had touched her heart as no other young man had
ever done. I kissed her hand. Just then the King came around a bend in
the walk. He struck me with his fist and kicked me with his foot. Then
he seized the arm of the Princess and rudely dragged her into the
castle."

"Wasn't he awful!" gasped Trot indignantly.

"He is a very abrupt King," said Pon, "so it was the least I could
expect. Up to that time I had not thought of loving Princess Gloria,
but realizing it would be impolite not to return her love, I did so. We
met at evening, now and then, and she told me the King wanted her to
marry a rich courtier named Googly-Goo, who is old enough to be
Gloria's father. She has refused Googly-Goo thirty-nine times, but he
still persists and has brought many rich presents to bribe the King. On
that account King Krewl has commanded his niece to marry the old man,
but the Princess has assured me, time and again, that she will wed only
me. This morning we happened to meet in the grape arbor and as I was
respectfully saluting the cheek of the Princess, two of the King's
guards seized me and beat me terribly before the very eyes of Gloria,
whom the King himself held back so she could not interfere."

"Why, this King must be a monster!" cried Trot.

"He is far worse than that," said Pon, mournfully.

"But, see here," interrupted Cap'n Bill, who had listened carefully to
Pon. "This King may not be so much to blame, after all. Kings are proud
folks, because they're so high an' mighty, an' it isn't reasonable for
a royal Princess to marry a common gardener's boy."

"It isn't right," declared Button-Bright. "A Princess should marry a
Prince."

"I'm not a common gardener's boy," protested Pon. "If I had my rights I
would be the King instead of Krewl. As it is, I'm a Prince, and as
royal as any man in Jinxland."

"How does that come?" asked Cap'n Bill.

"My father used to be the King and Krewl was his Prime Minister. But
one day while out hunting, King Phearse--that was my father's name--had
a quarrel with Krewl and tapped him gently on the nose with the
knuckles of his closed hand. This so provoked the wicked Krewl that he
tripped my father backward, so that he fell into a deep pond. At once
Krewl threw in a mass of heavy stones, which so weighted down my poor
father that his body could not rise again to the surface. It is
impossible to kill anyone in this land, as perhaps you know, but when
my father was pressed down into the mud at the bottom of the deep pool
and the stones held him so he could never escape, he was of no more use
to himself or the world than if he had died. Knowing this, Krewl
proclaimed himself King, taking possession of the royal castle and
driving all my father's people out. I was a small boy, then, but when I
grew up I became a gardener. I have served King Krewl without his
knowing that I am the son of the same King Phearse whom he so cruelly
made away with."

"My, but that's a terr'bly exciting story!" said Trot, drawing a long
breath. "But tell us, Pon, who was Gloria's father?"

"Oh, he was the King before my father," replied Pon. "Father was Prime
Minister for King Kynd, who was Gloria's father. She was only a baby
when King Kynd fell into the Great Gulf that lies just this side of the
mountains--the same mountains that separate Jinxland from the rest of
the Land of Oz. It is said the Great Gulf has no bottom; but, however
that may be, King Kynd has never been seen again and my father became
King in his place."

"Seems to me," said Trot, "that if Gloria had her rights she would be
Queen of Jinxland."

"Well, her father was a King," admitted Pon, "and so was my father; so
we are of equal rank, although she's a great lady and I'm a humble
gardener's boy. I can't see why we should not marry if we want to
except that King Krewl won't let us."

"It's a sort of mixed-up mess, taken altogether," remarked Cap'n Bill.
"But we are on our way to visit King Krewl, and if we get a chance,
young man, we'll put in a good word for you."

"Do, please!" begged Pon.

"Was it the flogging you got that broke your heart?" inquired
Button-Bright.

"Why, it helped to break it, of course," said Pon.

"I'd get it fixed up, if I were you," advised the boy, tossing a pebble
at a chipmunk in a tree. "You ought to give Gloria just as good a heart
as she gives you."

"That's common sense," agreed Cap'n Bill. So they left the gardener's
boy standing beside the path, and resumed their journey toward the
castle.




Chapter Eleven

The Wicked King and Googly-Goo


When our friends approached the great doorway of the castle they found
it guarded by several soldiers dressed in splendid uniforms. They were
armed with swords and lances. Cap'n Bill walked straight up to them and
asked:

"Does the King happen to be at home?"

"His Magnificent and Glorious Majesty, King Krewl, is at present
inhabiting his Royal Castle," was the stiff reply.

"Then I guess we'll go in an' say how-d'ye-do," continued Cap'n Bill,
attempting to enter the doorway. But a soldier barred his way with a
lance.

"Who are you, what are your names, and where do you come from?"
demanded the soldier.

"You wouldn't know if we told you," returned the sailor, "seein' as
we're strangers in a strange land."

"Oh, if you are strangers you will be permitted to enter," said the
soldier, lowering his lance. "His Majesty is very fond of strangers."

"Do many strangers come here?" asked Trot.

"You are the first that ever came to our country," said the man. "But
his Majesty has often said that if strangers ever arrived in Jinxland
he would see that they had a very exciting time."

Cap'n Bill scratched his chin thoughtfully. He wasn't very favorably
impressed by this last remark. But he decided that as there was no way
of escape from Jinxland it would be wise to confront the King boldly
and try to win his favor. So they entered the castle, escorted by one
of the soldiers.

It was certainly a fine castle, with many large rooms, all beautifully
furnished. The passages were winding and handsomely decorated, and
after following several of these the soldier led them into an open
court that occupied the very center of the huge building. It was
surrounded on every side by high turreted walls, and contained beds of
flowers, fountains and walks of many colored marbles which were matched
together in quaint designs. In an open space near the middle of the
court they saw a group of courtiers and their ladies, who surrounded a
lean man who wore upon his head a jeweled crown. His face was hard and
sullen and through the slits of his half-closed eyelids the eyes glowed
like coals of fire. He was dressed in brilliant satins and velvets and
was seated in a golden throne-chair.

This personage was King Krewl, and as soon as Cap'n Bill saw him the
old sailor knew at once that he was not going to like the King of
Jinxland.

"Hello! who's here?" said his Majesty, with a deep scowl.

"Strangers, Sire," answered the soldier, bowing so low that his
forehead touched the marble tiles.

"Strangers, eh? Well, well; what an unexpected visit! Advance,
strangers, and give an account of yourselves."

The King's voice was as harsh as his features. Trot shuddered a little
but Cap'n Bill calmly replied:

"There ain't much for us to say, 'cept as we've arrived to look over
your country an' see how we like it. Judgin' from the way you speak,
you don't know who we are, or you'd be jumpin' up to shake hands an'
offer us seats. Kings usually treat us pretty well, in the great big
Outside World where we come from, but in this little kingdom--which
don't amount to much, anyhow--folks don't seem to 'a' got much
culchure."

The King listened with amazement to this bold speech, first with a
frown and then gazing at the two children and the old sailor with
evident curiosity. The courtiers were dumb with fear, for no one had
ever dared speak in such a manner to their self-willed, cruel King
before. His Majesty, however, was somewhat frightened, for cruel people
are always cowards, and he feared these mysterious strangers might
possess magic powers that would destroy him unless he treated them
well. So he commanded his people to give the new arrivals seats, and
they obeyed with trembling haste.

After being seated, Cap'n Bill lighted his pipe and began puffing smoke
from it, a sight so strange to them that it filled them all with
wonder. Presently the King asked:

"How did you penetrate to this hidden country? Did you cross the desert
or the mountains?"

"Desert," answered Cap'n Bill, as if the task were too easy to be worth
talking about.

"Indeed! No one has ever been able to do that before," said the King.

"Well, it's easy enough, if you know how," asserted Cap'n Bill, so
carelessly that it greatly impressed his hearers. The King shifted in
his throne uneasily. He was more afraid of these strangers than before.

"Do you intend to stay long in Jinxland?" was his next anxious question.

"Depends on how we like it," said Cap'n Bill. "Just now I might suggest
to your Majesty to order some rooms got ready for us in your dinky
little castle here. And a royal banquet, with some fried onions an'
pickled tripe, would set easy on our stomicks an' make us a bit happier
than we are now."

"Your wishes shall be attended to," said King Krewl, but his eyes
flashed from between their slits in a wicked way that made Trot hope
the food wouldn't be poisoned. At the King's command several of his
attendants hastened away to give the proper orders to the castle
servants and no sooner were they gone than a skinny old man entered the
courtyard and bowed before the King.

This disagreeable person was dressed in rich velvets, with many
furbelows and laces. He was covered with golden chains, finely wrought
rings and jeweled ornaments. He walked with mincing steps and glared at
all the courtiers as if he considered himself far superior to any or
all of them.

"Well, well, your Majesty; what news--what news?" he demanded, in a
shrill, cracked voice.

The King gave him a surly look.

"No news, Lord Googly-Goo, except that strangers have arrived," he said.

Googly-Goo cast a contemptuous glance at Cap'n Bill and a disdainful
one at Trot and Button-Bright. Then he said:

"Strangers do not interest me, your Majesty. But the Princess Gloria is
very interesting--very interesting, indeed!  What does she say, Sire?
Will she marry me?"

"Ask her," retorted the King.

"I have, many times; and every time she has refused."

"Well?" said the King harshly.

"Well," said Googly-Goo in a jaunty tone, "a bird that can sing, and
won't sing, must be made to sing."

"Huh!" sneered the King. "That's easy, with a bird; but a girl is
harder to manage."

"Still," persisted Googly-Goo, "we must overcome difficulties. The
chief trouble is that Gloria fancies she loves that miserable
gardener's boy, Pon. Suppose we throw Pon into the Great Gulf, your
Majesty?"

"It would do you no good," returned the King. "She would still love
him."

"Too bad, too bad!" sighed Googly-Goo. "I have laid aside more than a
bushel of precious gems--each worth a king's ransom--to present to your
Majesty on the day I wed Gloria."

The King's eyes sparkled, for he loved wealth above everything; but the
next moment he frowned deeply again.

"It won't help us to kill Pon," he muttered. "What we must do is kill
Gloria's love for Pon."

"That is better, if you can find a way to do it," agreed Googly-Goo.
"Everything would come right if you could kill Gloria's love for that
gardener's boy. Really, Sire, now that I come to think of it, there
must be fully a bushel and a half of those jewels!"

Just then a messenger entered the court to say that the banquet was
prepared for the strangers. So Cap'n Bill, Trot and Button-Bright
entered the castle and were taken to a room where a fine feast was
spread upon the table.

"I don't like that Lord Googly-Goo," remarked Trot as she was busily
eating.

"Nor I," said Cap'n Bill. "But from the talk we heard I guess the
gardener's boy won't get the Princess."

"Perhaps not," returned the girl; "but I hope old Googly doesn't get
her, either."

"The King means to sell her for all those jewels," observed
Button-Bright, his mouth half full of cake and jam.

"Poor Princess!" sighed Trot. "I'm sorry for her, although I've never
seen her. But if she says no to Googly-Goo, and means it, what can they
do?"

"Don't let us worry about a strange Princess," advised Cap'n Bill.
"I've a notion we're not too safe, ourselves, with this cruel King."

The two children felt the same way and all three were rather solemn
during the remainder of the meal.

When they had eaten, the servants escorted them to their rooms. Cap'n
Bill's room was way to one end of the castle, very high up, and Trot's
room was at the opposite end, rather low down. As for Button-Bright,
they placed him in the middle, so that all were as far apart as they
could possibly be. They didn't like this arrangement very well, but all
the rooms were handsomely furnished and being guests of the King they
dared not complain.

After the strangers had left the courtyard the King and Googly-Goo had
a long talk together, and the King said:

"I cannot force Gloria to marry you just now, because those strangers
may interfere. I suspect that the wooden-legged man possesses great
magical powers, or he would never have been able to carry himself and
those children across the deadly desert."

"I don't like him; he looks dangerous," answered Googly-Goo. "But
perhaps you are mistaken about his being a wizard. Why don't you test
his powers?"

"How?" asked the King.

"Send for the Wicked Witch. She will tell you in a moment whether that
wooden-legged person is a common man or a magician."

"Ha! that's a good idea," cried the King. "Why didn't I think of the
Wicked Witch before? But the woman demands rich rewards for her
services."

"Never mind; I will pay her," promised the wealthy Googly-Goo.

So a servant was dispatched to summon the Wicked Witch, who lived but a
few leagues from King Krewl's castle. While they awaited her, the
withered old courtier proposed that they pay a visit to Princess Gloria
and see if she was not now in a more complaisant mood. So the two
started away together and searched the castle over without finding
Gloria.

At last Googly-Goo suggested she might be in the rear garden, which was
a large park filled with bushes and trees and surrounded by a high
wall. And what was their anger, when they turned a corner of the path,
to find in a quiet nook the beautiful Princess, and kneeling before
her, Pon, the gardener's boy! With a roar of rage the King dashed
forward; but Pon had scaled the wall by means of a ladder, which still
stood in its place, and when he saw the King coming he ran up the
ladder and made good his escape. But this left Gloria confronted by her
angry guardian, the King, and by old Googly-Goo, who was trembling with
a fury he could not express in words.

Seizing the Princess by her arm the King dragged her back to the
castle. Pushing her into a room on the lower floor he locked the door
upon the unhappy girl. And at that moment the arrival of the Wicked
Witch was announced.

Hearing this, the King smiled, as a tiger smiles, showing his teeth.
And Googly-Goo smiled, as a serpent smiles, for he had no teeth except
a couple of fangs. And having frightened each other with these smiles
the two dreadful men went away to the Royal Council Chamber to meet the
Wicked Witch.




Chapter Twelve

The Wooden-Legged Grass-Hopper


Now it so happened that Trot, from the window of her room, had
witnessed the meeting of the lovers in the garden and had seen the King
come and drag Gloria away. The little girl's heart went out in sympathy
for the poor Princess, who seemed to her to be one of the sweetest and
loveliest young ladies she had ever seen, so she crept along the
passages and from a hidden niche saw Gloria locked in her room.

The key was still in the lock, so when the King had gone away, followed
by Googly-Goo, Trot stole up to the door, turned the key and entered.
The Princess lay prone upon a couch, sobbing bitterly. Trot went up to
her and smoothed her hair and tried to comfort her.

"Don't cry," she said. "I've unlocked the door, so you can go away any
time you want to."

"It isn't that," sobbed the Princess. "I am unhappy because they will
not let me love Pon, the gardener's boy!"

"Well, never mind; Pon isn't any great shakes, anyhow, seems to me,"
said Trot soothingly. "There are lots of other people you can love."

Gloria rolled over on the couch and looked at the little girl
reproachfully.

"Pon has won my heart, and I can't help loving him," she explained.
Then with sudden indignation she added: "But I'll never love
Googly-Goo--never, as long as I live!"

"I should say not!" replied Trot. "Pon may not be much good, but old
Googly is very, very bad. Hunt around, and I'm sure you'll find someone
worth your love. You're very pretty, you know, and almost anyone ought
to love you."

"You don't understand, my dear," said Gloria, as she wiped the tears
from her eyes with a dainty lace handkerchief bordered with pearls.
"When you are older you will realize that a young lady cannot decide
whom she will love, or choose the most worthy. Her heart alone decides
for her, and whomsoever her heart selects, she must love, whether he
amounts to much or not."

Trot was a little puzzled by this speech, which seemed to her
unreasonable; but she made no reply and presently Gloria's grief
softened and she began to question the little girl about herself and
her adventures. Trot told her how they had happened to come to
Jinxland, and all about Cap'n Bill and the Ork and Pessim and the Bumpy
Man.

While they were thus conversing together, getting more and more
friendly as they became better acquainted, in the Council Chamber the
King and Googly-Goo were talking with the Wicked Witch.

This evil creature was old and ugly. She had lost one eye and wore a
black patch over it, so the people of Jinxland had named her "Blinkie."
Of course witches are forbidden to exist in the Land of Oz, but
Jinxland was so far removed from the center of Ozma's dominions, and so
absolutely cut off from it by the steep mountains and the bottomless
gulf, that the laws of Oz were not obeyed very well in that country. So
there were several witches in Jinxland who were the terror of the
people, but King Krewl favored them and permitted them to exercise
their evil sorcery.

Blinkie was the leader of all the other witches and therefore the most
hated and feared. The King used her witchcraft at times to assist him
in carrying out his cruelties and revenge, but he was always obliged to
pay Blinkie large sums of money or heaps of precious jewels before she
would undertake an enchantment. This made him hate the old woman almost
as much as his subjects did, but to-day Lord Googly-Goo had agreed to
pay the witch's price, so the King greeted her with gracious favor.

"Can you destroy the love of Princess Gloria for the gardener's boy?"
inquired his Majesty.

The Wicked Witch thought about it before she replied:

"That's a hard question to answer. I can do lots of clever magic, but
love is a stubborn thing to conquer. When you think you've killed it,
it's liable to bob up again as strong as ever. I believe love and cats
have nine lives. In other words, killing love is a hard job, even for a
skillful witch, but I believe I can do something that will answer your
purpose just as well."

"What is that?" asked the King.

"I can freeze the girl's heart. I've got a special incantation for
that, and when Gloria's heart is thoroughly frozen she can no longer
love Pon."

"Just the thing!" exclaimed Googly-Goo, and the King was likewise much
pleased.

They bargained a long time as to the price, but finally the old
courtier agreed to pay the Wicked Witch's demands. It was arranged that
they should take Gloria to Blinkie's house the next day, to have her
heart frozen.

Then King Krewl mentioned to the old hag the strangers who had that day
arrived in Jinxland, and said to her:

"I think the two children--the boy and the girl--are unable to harm me,
but I have a suspicion that the wooden-legged man is a powerful wizard."

The witch's face wore a troubled look when she heard this.

"If you are right," she said, "this wizard might spoil my incantation
and interfere with me in other ways. So it will be best for me to meet
this stranger at once and match my magic against his, to decide which
is the stronger."

"All right," said the King. "Come with me and I will lead you to the
man's room."

Googly-Goo did not accompany them, as he was obliged to go home to get
the money and jewels he had promised to pay old Blinkie, so the other
two climbed several flights of stairs and went through many passages
until they came to the room occupied by Cap'n Bill.

The sailor-man, finding his bed soft and inviting, and being tired with
the adventures he had experienced, had decided to take a nap. When the
Wicked Witch and the King softly opened his door and entered, Cap'n
Bill was snoring with such vigor that he did not hear them at all.

Blinkie approached the bed and with her one eye anxiously stared at the
sleeping stranger.

"Ah," she said in a soft whisper, "I believe you are right, King Krewl.
The man looks to me like a very powerful wizard. But by good luck I
have caught him asleep, so I shall transform him before he wakes up,
giving him such a form that he will be unable to oppose me."

"Careful!" cautioned the King, also speaking low. "If he discovers what
you are doing he may destroy you, and that would annoy me because I
need you to attend to Gloria."

But the Wicked Witch realized as well as he did that she must be
careful. She carried over her arm a black bag, from which she now drew
several packets carefully wrapped in paper. Three of these she
selected, replacing the others in the bag. Two of the packets she mixed
together, and then she cautiously opened the third.

"Better stand back, your Majesty," she advised, "for if this powder
falls on you you might be transformed yourself."

The King hastily retreated to the end of the room. As Blinkie mixed the
third powder with the others she waved her hands over it, mumbled a few
words, and then backed away as quickly as she could.

Cap'n Bill was slumbering peacefully, all unconscious of what was going
on. Puff! A great cloud of smoke rolled over the bed and completely hid
him from view. When the smoke rolled away, both Blinkie and the King
saw that the body of the stranger had quite disappeared, while in his
place, crouching in the middle of the bed, was a little gray
grasshopper.

One curious thing about this grasshopper was that the last joint of its
left leg was made of wood. Another curious thing--considering it was a
grasshopper--was that it began talking, crying out in a tiny but sharp
voice:

"Here--you people! What do you mean by treating me so? Put me back
where I belong, at once, or you'll be sorry!"

The cruel King turned pale at hearing the grasshopper's threats, but
the Wicked Witch merely laughed in derision. Then she raised her stick
and aimed a vicious blow at the grasshopper, but before the stick
struck the bed the tiny hopper made a marvelous jump--marvelous,
indeed, when we consider that it had a wooden leg. It rose in the air
and sailed across the room and passed right through the open window,
where it disappeared from their view.

"Good!" shouted the King. "We are well rid of this desperate wizard."
And then they both laughed heartily at the success of the incantation,
and went away to complete their horrid plans.

After Trot had visited a time with Princess Gloria, the little girl
went to Button-Bright's room but did not find him there. Then she went
to Cap'n Bill's room, but he was not there because the witch and the
King had been there before her. So she made her way downstairs and
questioned the servants. They said they had seen the little boy go out
into the garden, some time ago, but the old man with the wooden leg
they had not seen at all.

Therefore Trot, not knowing what else to do, rambled through the great
gardens, seeking for Button-Bright or Cap'n Bill and not finding either
of them. This part of the garden, which lay before the castle, was not
walled in, but extended to the roadway, and the paths were open to the
edge of the forest; so, after two hours of vain search for her friends,
the little girl returned to the castle.

But at the doorway a soldier stopped her.

"I live here," said Trot, "so it's all right to let me in. The King has
given me a room."

"Well, he has taken it back again," was the soldier's reply. "His
Majesty's orders are to turn you away if you attempt to enter. I am
also ordered to forbid the boy, your companion, to again enter the
King's castle."

"How 'bout Cap'n Bill?" she inquired.

"Why, it seems he has mysteriously disappeared," replied the soldier,
shaking his head ominously. "Where he has gone to, I can't make out,
but I can assure you he is no longer in this castle. I'm sorry, little
girl, to disappoint you. Don't blame me; I must obey my master's
orders."

Now, all her life Trot had been accustomed to depend on Cap'n Bill, so
when this good friend was suddenly taken from her she felt very
miserable and forlorn indeed. She was brave enough not to cry before
the soldier, or even to let him see her grief and anxiety, but after
she was turned away from the castle she sought a quiet bench in the
garden and for a time sobbed as if her heart would break.

It was Button-Bright who found her, at last, just as the sun had set
and the shades of evening were falling. He also had been turned away
from the King's castle, when he tried to enter it, and in the park he
came across Trot.

"Never mind," said the boy. "We can find a place to sleep."

"I want Cap'n Bill," wailed the girl.

"Well, so do I," was the reply. "But we haven't got him. Where do you
s'pose he is, Trot?

"I don't s'pose anything. He's gone, an' that's all I know 'bout it."

Button-Bright sat on the bench beside her and thrust his hands in the
pockets of his knickerbockers. Then he reflected somewhat gravely for
him.

"Cap'n Bill isn't around here," he said, letting his eyes wander over
the dim garden, "so we must go somewhere else if we want to find him.
Besides, it's fast getting dark, and if we want to find a place to
sleep we must get busy while we can see where to go."

He rose from the bench as he said this and Trot also jumped up, drying
her eyes on her apron. Then she walked beside him out of the grounds of
the King's castle. They did not go by the main path, but passed through
an opening in a hedge and found themselves in a small but well-worn
roadway. Following this for some distance, along a winding way, they
came upon no house or building that would afford them refuge for the
night. It became so dark that they could scarcely see their way, and
finally Trot stopped and suggested that they camp under a tree.

"All right," said Button-Bright, "I've often found that leaves make a
good warm blanket. But--look there, Trot!--isn't that a light flashing
over yonder?"

"It certainly is, Button-Bright. Let's go over and see if it's a house.
Whoever lives there couldn't treat us worse than the King did."

To reach the light they had to leave the road, so they stumbled over
hillocks and brushwood, hand in hand, keeping the tiny speck of light
always in sight.

They were rather forlorn little waifs, outcasts in a strange country
and forsaken by their only friend and guardian, Cap'n Bill. So they
were very glad when finally they reached a small cottage and, looking
in through its one window, saw Pon, the gardener's boy, sitting by a
fire of twigs.

As Trot opened the door and walked boldly in, Pon sprang up to greet
them. They told him of Cap'n Bill's disappearance and how they had been
turned out of the King's castle. As they finished the story Pon shook
his head sadly.

"King Krewl is plotting mischief, I fear," said he, "for to-day he sent
for old Blinkie, the Wicked Witch, and with my own eyes I saw her come
from the castle and hobble away toward her hut. She had been with the
King and Googly-Goo, and I was afraid they were going to work some
enchantment on Gloria so she would no longer love me. But perhaps the
witch was only called to the castle to enchant your friend, Cap'n Bill."

"Could she do that?" asked Trot, horrified by the suggestion.

"I suppose so, for old Blinkie can do a lot of wicked magical things."

"What sort of an enchantment could she put on Cap'n Bill?"

"I don't know. But he has disappeared, so I'm pretty certain she has
done something dreadful to him. But don't worry. If it has happened, it
can't be helped, and if it hasn't happened we may be able to find him
in the morning."

With this Pon went to the cupboard and brought food for them. Trot was
far too worried to eat, but Button-Bright made a good supper from the
simple food and then lay down before the fire and went to sleep. The
little girl and the gardener's boy, however, sat for a long time
staring into the fire, busy with their thoughts. But at last Trot, too,
became sleepy and Pon gently covered her with the one blanket he
possessed. Then he threw more wood on the fire and laid himself down
before it, next to Button-Bright. Soon all three were fast asleep. They
were in a good deal of trouble; but they were young, and sleep was good
to them because for a time it made them forget.




Chapter Thirteen

Glinda the Good and the Scarecrow of Oz


That country south of the Emerald City, in the Land of Oz, is known as
the Quadling Country, and in the very southernmost part of it stands a
splendid palace in which lives Glinda the Good.

Glinda is the Royal Sorceress of Oz. She has wonderful magical powers
and uses them only to benefit the subjects of Ozma's kingdom. Even the
famous Wizard of Oz pays tribute to her, for Glinda taught him all the
real magic he knows, and she is his superior in all sorts of sorcery
Everyone loves Glinda, from the dainty and exquisite Ruler, Ozma, down
to the humblest inhabitant of Oz, for she is always kindly and helpful
and willing to listen to their troubles, however busy she may be. No
one knows her age, but all can see how beautiful and stately she is.
Her hair is like red gold and finer than the finest silken strands. Her
eyes are blue as the sky and always frank and smiling. Her cheeks are
the envy of peach-blows and her mouth is enticing as a rosebud. Glinda
is tall and wears splendid gowns that trail behind her as she walks.
She wears no jewels, for her beauty would shame them.

For attendants Glinda has half a hundred of the loveliest girls in Oz.
They are gathered from all over Oz, from among the Winkies, the
Munchkins, the Gillikins and the Quadlings, as well as from Ozma's
magnificent Emerald City, and it is considered a great favor to be
allowed to serve the Royal Sorceress.

Among the many wonderful things in Glinda's palace is the Great Book of
Records. In this book is inscribed everything that takes place in all
the world, just the instant it happens; so that by referring to its
pages Glinda knows what is taking place far and near, in every country
that exists. In this way she learns when and where she can help any in
distress or danger, and although her duties are confined to assisting
those who inhabit the Land of Oz, she is always interested in what
takes place in the unprotected outside world.

So it was that on a certain evening Glinda sat in her library,
surrounded by a bevy of her maids, who were engaged in spinning,
weaving and embroidery, when an attendant announced the arrival at the
palace of the Scarecrow.

This personage was one of the most famous and popular in all the Land
of Oz. His body was merely a suit of Munchkin clothes stuffed with
straw, but his head was a round sack filled with bran, with which the
Wizard of Oz had mixed some magic brains of a very superior sort. The
eyes, nose and mouth of the Scarecrow were painted upon the front of
the sack, as were his ears, and since this quaint being had been
endowed with life, the expression of his face was very interesting, if
somewhat comical.

The Scarecrow was good all through, even to his brains, and while he
was naturally awkward in his movements and lacked the neat symmetry of
other people, his disposition was so kind and considerate and he was so
obliging and honest, that all who knew him loved him, and there were
few people in Oz who had not met our Scarecrow and made his
acquaintance. He lived part of the time in Ozma's palace at the Emerald
City, part of the time in his own corncob castle in the Winkie Country,
and part of the time he traveled over all Oz, visiting with the people
and playing with the children, whom he dearly loved.

It was on one of his wandering journeys that the Scarecrow had arrived
at Glinda's palace, and the Sorceress at once made him welcome. As he
sat beside her, talking of his adventures, he asked:

"What's new in the way of news?"

Glinda opened her Great Book of Records and read some of the last pages.

"Here is an item quite curious and interesting," she announced, an
accent of surprise in her voice. "Three people from the big Outside
World have arrived in Jinxland."

"Where is Jinxland?" inquired the Scarecrow.

"Very near here, a little to the east of us," she said. "In fact,
Jinxland is a little slice taken off the Quadling Country, but
separated from it by a range of high mountains, at the foot of which
lies a wide, deep gulf that is supposed to be impassable."

"Then Jinxland is really a part of the Land of Oz," said he.

"Yes," returned Glinda, "but Oz people know nothing of it, except what
is recorded here in my book."

"What does the Book say about it?" asked the Scarecrow.

"It is ruled by a wicked man called King Krewl, although he has no
right to the title. Most of the people are good, but they are very
timid and live in constant fear of their fierce ruler. There are also
several Wicked Witches who keep the inhabitants of Jinxland in a state
of terror."

"Do those witches have any magical powers?" inquired the Scarecrow.

"Yes, they seem to understand witchcraft in its most evil form, for one
of them has just transformed a respectable and honest old sailor--one
of the strangers who arrived there--into a grasshopper. This same
witch, Blinkie by name, is also planning to freeze the heart of a
beautiful Jinxland girl named Princess Gloria."

"Why, that's a dreadful thing to do!" exclaimed the Scarecrow.

Glinda's face was very grave. She read in her book how Trot and
Button-Bright were turned out of the King's castle, and how they found
refuge in the hut of Pon, the gardener's boy.

"I'm afraid those helpless earth people will endure much suffering in
Jinxland, even if the wicked King and the witches permit them to live,"
said the good Sorceress, thoughtfully. "I wish I might help them."

"Can I do anything?" asked the Scarecrow, anxiously. "If so, tell me
what to do, and I'll do it."

For a few moments Glinda did not reply, but sat musing over the
records. Then she said: "I am going to send you to Jinxland, to protect
Trot and Button-Bright and Cap'n Bill."

"All right," answered the Scarecrow in a cheerful voice. "I know
Button-Bright already, for he has been in the Land of Oz before. You
remember he went away from the Land of Oz in one of our Wizard's big
bubbles."

"Yes," said Glinda, "I remember that." Then she carefully instructed
the Scarecrow what to do and gave him certain magical things which he
placed in the pockets of his ragged Munchkin coat.

"As you have no need to sleep," said she, "you may as well start at
once."

"The night is the same as day to me," he replied, "except that I cannot
see my way so well in the dark."

"I will furnish a light to guide you," promised the Sorceress.

So the Scarecrow bade her good-bye and at once started on his journey.
By morning he had reached the mountains that separated the Quadling
Country from Jinxland. The sides of these mountains were too steep to
climb, but the Scarecrow took a small rope from his pocket and tossed
one end upward, into the air. The rope unwound itself for hundreds of
feet, until it caught upon a peak of rock at the very top of a
mountain, for it was a magic rope furnished him by Glinda. The
Scarecrow climbed the rope and, after pulling it up, let it down on the
other side of the mountain range. When he descended the rope on this
side he found himself in Jinxland, but at his feet yawned the Great
Gulf, which must be crossed before he could proceed any farther.

The Scarecrow knelt down and examined the ground carefully, and in a
moment he discovered a fuzzy brown spider that had rolled itself into a
ball. So he took two tiny pills from his pocket and laid them beside
the spider, which unrolled itself and quickly ate up the pills. Then
the Scarecrow said in a voice of command:

"Spin!" and the spider obeyed instantly.

In a few moments the little creature had spun two slender but strong
strands that reached way across the gulf, one being five or six feet
above the other. When these were completed the Scarecrow started across
the tiny bridge, walking upon one strand as a person walks upon a rope,
and holding to the upper strand with his hands to prevent him from
losing his balance and toppling over into the gulf. The tiny threads
held him safely, thanks to the strength given them by the magic pills.

Presently he was safe across and standing on the plains of Jinxland.
Far away he could see the towers of the King's castle and toward this
he at once began to walk.




Chapter Fourteen

The Frozen Heart


In the hut of Pon, the gardener's boy, Button-Bright was the first to
waken in the morning. Leaving his companions still asleep, he went out
into the fresh morning air and saw some blackberries growing on bushes
in a field not far away. Going to the bushes he found the berries ripe
and sweet, so he began eating them. More bushes were scattered over the
fields, so the boy wandered on, from bush to bush, without paying any
heed to where he was wandering. Then a butterfly fluttered by. He gave
chase to it and followed it a long way. When finally he paused to look
around him, Button-Bright could see no sign of Pon's house, nor had he
the slightest idea in which direction it lay.

"Well, I'm lost again," he remarked to himself. "But never mind; I've
been lost lots of times. Someone is sure to find me."

Trot was a little worried about Button-Bright when she awoke and found
him gone. Knowing how careless he was, she believed that he had strayed
away, but felt that he would come back in time, because he had a habit
of not staying lost. Pon got the little girl some food for her
breakfast and then together they went out of the hut and stood in the
sunshine.

Pon's house was some distance off the road, but they could see it from
where they stood and both gave a start of surprise when they discovered
two soldiers walking along the roadway and escorting Princess Gloria
between them. The poor girl had her hands bound together, to prevent
her from struggling, and the soldiers rudely dragged her forward when
her steps seemed to lag.

Behind this group came King Krewl, wearing his jeweled crown and
swinging in his hand a slender golden staff with a ball of clustered
gems at one end.

"Where are they going?" asked Trot. "To the house of the Wicked Witch,
I fear," Pon replied. "Come, let us follow them, for I am sure they
intend to harm my dear Gloria."

"Won't they see us?" she asked timidly.

"We won't let them. I know a short cut through the trees to Blinkie's
house," said he.

So they hurried away through the trees and reached the house of the
witch ahead of the King and his soldiers. Hiding themselves in the
shrubbery, they watched the approach of poor Gloria and her escort, all
of whom passed so near to them that Pon could have put out a hand and
touched his sweetheart, had he dared to.

Blinkie's house had eight sides, with a door and a window in each side.
Smoke was coming out of the chimney and as the guards brought Gloria to
one of the doors it was opened by the old witch in person. She chuckled
with evil glee and rubbed her skinny hands together to show the delight
with which she greeted her victim, for Blinkie was pleased to be able
to perform her wicked rites on one so fair and sweet as the Princess.

Gloria struggled to resist when they bade her enter the house, so the
soldiers forced her through the doorway and even the King gave her a
shove as he followed close behind. Pon was so incensed at the cruelty
shown Gloria that he forgot all caution and rushed forward to enter the
house also; but one of the soldiers prevented him, pushing the
gardener's boy away with violence and slamming the door in his face.

"Never mind," said Trot soothingly, as Pon rose from where he had
fallen. "You couldn't do much to help the poor Princess if you were
inside. How unfortunate it is that you are in love with her!"

"True," he answered sadly, "it is indeed my misfortune. If I did not
love her, it would be none of my business what the King did to his
niece Gloria; but the unlucky circumstance of my loving her makes it my
duty to defend her."

"I don't see how you can, duty or no duty," observed Trot.

"No; I am powerless, for they are stronger than I. But we might peek in
through the window and see what they are doing."

Trot was somewhat curious, too, so they crept up to one of the windows
and looked in, and it so happened that those inside the witch's house
were so busy they did not notice that Pon and Trot were watching them.

Gloria had been tied to a stout post in the center of the room and the
King was giving the Wicked Witch a quantity of money and jewels, which
Googly-Goo had provided in payment. When this had been done the King
said to her:

"Are you perfectly sure you can freeze this maiden's heart, so that she
will no longer love that low gardener's boy?"

"Sure as witchcraft, your Majesty," the creature replied.

"Then get to work," said the King. "There may be some unpleasant
features about the ceremony that would annoy me, so I'll bid you good
day and leave you to carry out your contract. One word, however: If you
fail, I shall burn you at the stake!" Then he beckoned to his soldiers
to follow him, and throwing wide the door of the house walked out.

This action was so sudden that King Krewl almost caught Trot and Pon
eavesdropping, but they managed to run around the house before he saw
them. Away he marched, up the road, followed by his men, heartlessly
leaving Gloria to the mercies of old Blinkie.

When they again crept up to the window, Trot and Pon saw Blinkie
gloating over her victim. Although nearly fainting from fear, the proud
Princess gazed with haughty defiance into the face of the wicked
creature; but she was bound so tightly to the post that she could do no
more to express her loathing.

Pretty soon Blinkie went to a kettle that was swinging by a chain over
the fire and tossed into it several magical compounds. The kettle gave
three flashes, and at every flash another witch appeared in the room.

These hags were very ugly but when one-eyed Blinkie whispered her
orders to them they grinned with joy as they began dancing around
Gloria. First one and then another cast something into the kettle, when
to the astonishment of the watchers at the window all three of the old
women were instantly transformed into maidens of exquisite beauty,
dressed in the daintiest costumes imaginable. Only their eyes could not
be disguised, and an evil glare still shone in their depths. But if the
eyes were cast down or hidden, one could not help but admire these
beautiful creatures, even with the knowledge that they were mere
illusions of witchcraft.

Trot certainly admired them, for she had never seen anything so dainty
and bewitching, but her attention was quickly drawn to their deeds
instead of their persons, and then horror replaced admiration. Into the
kettle old Blinkie poured another mess from a big brass bottle she took
from a chest, and this made the kettle begin to bubble and smoke
violently. One by one the beautiful witches approached to stir the
contents of the kettle and to mutter a magic charm. Their movements
were graceful and rhythmic and the Wicked Witch who had called them to
her aid watched them with an evil grin upon her wrinkled face.

Finally the incantation was complete. The kettle ceased bubbling and
together the witches lifted it from the fire. Then Blinkie brought a
wooden ladle and filled it from the contents of the kettle. Going with
the spoon to Princess Gloria she cried:

"Love no more! Magic art Now will freeze your mortal heart!"

With this she dashed the contents of the ladle full upon Gloria's
breast.

Trot saw the body of the Princess become transparent, so that her
beating heart showed plainly. But now the heart turned from a vivid red
to gray, and then to white. A layer of frost formed about it and tiny
icicles clung to its surface. Then slowly the body of the girl became
visible again and the heart was hidden from view. Gloria seemed to have
fainted, but now she recovered and, opening her beautiful eyes, stared
coldly and without emotion at the group of witches confronting her.

Blinkie and the others knew by that one cold look that their charm had
been successful. They burst into a chorus of wild laughter and the
three beautiful ones began dancing again, while Blinkie unbound the
Princess and set her free.

Trot rubbed her eyes to prove that she was wide awake and seeing
clearly, for her astonishment was great when the three lovely maidens
turned into ugly, crooked hags again, leaning on broomsticks and canes.
They jeered at Gloria, but the Princess regarded them with cold
disdain. Being now free, she walked to a door, opened it and passed
out. And the witches let her go.

Trot and Pon had been so intent upon this scene that in their eagerness
they had pressed quite hard against the window. Just as Gloria went out
of the house the window-sash broke loose from its fastenings and fell
with a crash into the room. The witches uttered a chorus of screams and
then, seeing that their magical incantation had been observed, they
rushed for the open window with uplifted broomsticks and canes. But Pon
was off like the wind, and Trot followed at his heels. Fear lent them
strength to run, to leap across ditches, to speed up the hills and to
vault the low fences as a deer would.

The band of witches had dashed through the window in pursuit; but
Blinkie was so old, and the others so crooked and awkward, that they
soon realized they would be unable to overtake the fugitives. So the
three who had been summoned by the Wicked Witch put their canes or
broomsticks between their legs and flew away through the air, quickly
disappearing against the blue sky. Blinkie, however, was so enraged at
Pon and Trot that she hobbled on in the direction they had taken, fully
determined to catch them, in time, and to punish them terribly for
spying upon her witchcraft.

When Pon and Trot had run so far that they were confident they had made
good their escape, they sat down near the edge of a forest to get their
breath again, for both were panting hard from their exertions. Trot was
the first to recover speech, and she said to her companion:

"My! wasn't it terr'ble?"

"The most terrible thing I ever saw," Pon agreed.

"And they froze Gloria's heart; so now she can't love you any more."

"Well, they froze her heart, to be sure," admitted Pon, "but I'm in
hopes I can melt it with my love."

"Where do you s'pose Gloria is?" asked the girl, after a pause.

"She left the witch's house just before we did. Perhaps she has gone
back to the King's castle," he said.

"I'm pretty sure she started off in a diff'rent direction," declared
Trot. "I looked over my shoulder, as I ran, to see how close the
witches were, and I'm sure I saw Gloria walking slowly away toward the
north."

"Then let us circle around that way," proposed Pon, "and perhaps we
shall meet her."

Trot agreed to this and they left the grove and began to circle around
toward the north, thus drawing nearer and nearer to old Blinkie's house
again. The Wicked Witch did not suspect this change of direction, so
when she came to the grove she passed through it and continued on.

Pon and Trot had reached a place less than half a mile from the witch's
house when they saw Gloria walking toward them. The Princess moved with
great dignity and with no show of haste whatever, holding her head high
and looking neither to right nor left.

Pon rushed forward, holding out his arms as if to embrace her and
calling her sweet names. But Gloria gazed upon him coldly and repelled
him with a haughty gesture. At this the poor gardener's boy sank upon
his knees and hid his face in his arms, weeping bitter tears; but the
Princess was not at all moved by his distress. Passing him by, she drew
her skirts aside, as if unwilling they should touch him, and then she
walked up the path a way and hesitated, as if uncertain where to go
next.

Trot was grieved by Pon's sobs and indignant because Gloria treated him
so badly. But she remembered why.

"I guess your heart is frozen, all right," she said to the Princess.
Gloria nodded gravely, in reply, and then turned her back upon the
little girl. "Can't you like even me?" asked Trot, half pleadingly.

"No," said Gloria.

"Your voice sounds like a refrig'rator," sighed the little girl. "I'm
awful sorry for you, 'cause you were sweet an' nice to me before this
happened. You can't help it, of course; but it's a dreadful thing, jus'
the same."

"My heart is frozen to all mortal loves," announced Gloria, calmly. "I
do not love even myself."

"That's too bad," said Trot, "for, if you can't love anybody, you can't
expect anybody to love you."

"I do!" cried Pon. "I shall always love her."

"Well, you're just a gardener's boy," replied Trot, "and I didn't think
you 'mounted to much, from the first. I can love the old Princess
Gloria, with a warm heart an' nice manners, but this one gives me the
shivers."

"It's her icy heart, that's all," said Pon.

"That's enough," insisted Trot. "Seeing her heart isn't big enough to
skate on, I can't see that she's of any use to anyone. For my part, I'm
goin' to try to find Button-Bright an' Cap'n Bill."

"I will go with you," decided Pon. "It is evident that Gloria no longer
loves me and that her heart is frozen too stiff for me to melt it with
my own love; therefore I may as well help you to find your friends."

As Trot started off, Pon cast one more imploring look at the Princess,
who returned it with a chilly stare. So he followed after the little
girl.

As for the Princess, she hesitated a moment and then turned in the same
direction the others had taken, but going far more slowly. Soon she
heard footsteps pattering behind her, and up came Googly-Goo, a little
out of breath with running.

"Stop, Gloria!" he cried. "I have come to take you back to my mansion,
where we are to be married."

She looked at him wonderingly a moment, then tossed her head
disdainfully and walked on. But Googly-Goo kept beside her.

"What does this mean?" he demanded. "Haven't you discovered that you no
longer love that gardener's boy, who stood in my way?"

"Yes; I have discovered it," she replied. "My heart is frozen to all
mortal loves. I cannot love you, or Pon, or the cruel King my uncle, or
even myself. Go your way, Googly-Goo, for I will wed no one at all."

He stopped in dismay when he heard this, but in another minute he
exclaimed angrily:

"You must wed me, Princess Gloria, whether you want to or not! I paid
to have your heart frozen; I also paid the King to permit our marriage.
If you now refuse me it will mean that I have been
robbed--robbed--robbed of my precious money and jewels!"

He almost wept with despair, but she laughed a cold, bitter laugh and
passed on. Googly-Goo caught at her arm, as if to restrain her, but she
whirled and dealt him a blow that sent him reeling into a ditch beside
the path. Here he lay for a long time, half covered by muddy water,
dazed with surprise.

Finally the old courtier arose, dripping, and climbed from the ditch.
The Princess had gone; so, muttering threats of vengeance upon her,
upon the King and upon Blinkie, old Googly-Goo hobbled back to his
mansion to have the mud removed from his costly velvet clothes.




Chapter Fifteen

Trot Meets the Scarecrow


Trot and Pon covered many leagues of ground, searching through forests,
in fields and in many of the little villages of Jinxland, but could
find no trace of either Cap'n Bill or Button-Bright. Finally they
paused beside a cornfield and sat upon a stile to rest. Pon took some
apples from his pocket and gave one to Trot. Then he began eating
another himself, for this was their time for luncheon. When his apple
was finished Pon tossed the core into the field.

"Tchuk-tchuk!" said a strange voice. "What do you mean by hitting me in
the eye with an apple-core?"

Then rose up the form of the Scarecrow, who had hidden himself in the
cornfield while he examined Pon and Trot and decided whether they were
worthy to be helped.

"Excuse me," said Pon. "I didn't know you were there."

"How did you happen to be there, anyhow?" asked Trot.

The Scarecrow came forward with awkward steps and stood beside them.

"Ah, you are the gardener's boy," he said to Pon. Then he turned to
Trot. "And you are the little girl who came to Jinxland riding on a big
bird, and who has had the misfortune to lose her friend, Cap'n Bill,
and her chum, Button-Bright."

"Why, how did you know all that?" she inquired.

"I know a lot of things," replied the Scarecrow, winking at her
comically. "My brains are the Carefully-Assorted, Double-Distilled,
High-Efficiency sort that the Wizard of Oz makes. He admits, himself,
that my brains are the best he ever manufactured."

"I think I've heard of you," said Trot slowly, as she looked the
Scarecrow over with much interest; "but you used to live in the Land of
Oz."

"Oh, I do now," he replied cheerfully. "I've just come over the
mountains from the Quadling Country to see if I can be of any help to
you."

"Who, me?" asked Pon.

"No, the strangers from the big world. It seems they need looking
after."

"I'm doing that myself," said Pon, a little ungraciously. "If you will
pardon me for saying so, I don't see how a Scarecrow with painted eyes
can look after anyone."

"If you don't see that, you are more blind than the Scarecrow,"
asserted Trot. "He's a fairy man, Pon, and comes from the fairyland of
Oz, so he can do 'most anything. I hope," she added, turning to the
Scarecrow, "you can find Cap'n Bill for me."

"I will try, anyhow," he promised. "But who is that old woman who is
running toward us and shaking her stick at us?"

Trot and Pon turned around and both uttered an exclamation of fear. The
next instant they took to their heels and ran fast up the path. For it
was old Blinkie, the Wicked Witch, who had at last traced them to this
place. Her anger was so great that she was determined not to abandon
the chase of Pon and Trot until she had caught and punished them. The
Scarecrow understood at once that the old woman meant harm to his new
friends, so as she drew near he stepped before her. His appearance was
so sudden and unexpected that Blinkie ran into him and toppled him
over, but she tripped on his straw body and went rolling in the path
beside him.

The Scarecrow sat up and said: "I beg your pardon!" but she whacked him
with her stick and knocked him flat again. Then, furious with rage, the
old witch sprang upon her victim and began pulling the straw out of his
body. The poor Scarecrow was helpless to resist and in a few moments
all that was left of him was an empty suit of clothes and a heap of
straw beside it. Fortunately, Blinkie did not harm his head, for it
rolled into a little hollow and escaped her notice. Fearing that Pon
and Trot would escape her, she quickly resumed the chase and
disappeared over the brow of a hill, following the direction in which
she had seen them go.

Only a short time elapsed before a gray grasshopper with a wooden leg
came hopping along and lit directly on the upturned face of the
Scarecrow's head.

"Pardon me, but you are resting yourself upon my nose," remarked the
Scarecrow.

"Oh! are you alive?" asked the grasshopper.

"That is a question I have never been able to decide," said the
Scarecrow's head. "When my body is properly stuffed I have animation
and can move around as well as any live person. The brains in the head
you are now occupying as a throne, are of very superior quality and do
a lot of very clever thinking. But whether that is being alive, or not,
I cannot prove to you; for one who lives is liable to death, while I am
only liable to destruction."

"Seems to me," said the grasshopper, rubbing his nose with his front
legs, "that in your case it doesn't matter--unless you're destroyed
already."

"I am not; all I need is re-stuffing," declared the Scarecrow; "and if
Pon and Trot escape the witch, and come back here, I am sure they will
do me that favor."

"Tell me! Are Trot and Pon around here?" inquired the grasshopper, its
small voice trembling with excitement.

The Scarecrow did not answer at once, for both his eyes were staring
straight upward at a beautiful face that was slightly bent over his
head. It was, indeed, Princess Gloria, who had wandered to this spot,
very much surprised when she heard the Scarecrow's head talk and the
tiny gray grasshopper answer it.

"This," said the Scarecrow, still staring at her, "must be the Princess
who loves Pon, the gardener's boy."

"Oh, indeed!" exclaimed the grasshopper--who of course was Cap'n
Bill--as he examined the young lady curiously.

"No," said Gloria frigidly, "I do not love Pon, or anyone else, for the
Wicked Witch has frozen my heart."

"What a shame!" cried the Scarecrow. "One so lovely should be able to
love. But would you mind, my dear, stuffing that straw into my body
again?"

The dainty Princess glanced at the straw and at the well-worn blue
Munchkin clothes and shrank back in disdain. But she was spared from
refusing the Scarecrow's request by the appearance of Trot and Pon, who
had hidden in some bushes just over the brow of the hill and waited
until old Blinkie had passed them by. Their hiding place was on the
same side as the witch's blind eye, and she rushed on in the chase of
the girl and the youth without being aware that they had tricked her.

Trot was shocked at the Scarecrow's sad condition and at once began
putting the straw back into his body. Pon, at sight of Gloria, again
appealed to her to take pity on him, but the frozen-hearted Princess
turned coldly away and with a sigh the gardener's boy began to assist
Trot.

Neither of them at first noticed the small grasshopper, which at their
appearance had skipped off the Scarecrow's nose and was now clinging to
a wisp of grass beside the path, where he was not likely to be stepped
upon. Not until the Scarecrow had been neatly restuffed and set upon
his feet again--when he bowed to his restorers and expressed his
thanks--did the grasshopper move from his perch. Then he leaped lightly
into the path and called out:

"Trot--Trot! Look at me. I'm Cap'n Bill! See what the Wicked Witch has
done to me."

The voice was small, to be sure, but it reached Trot's ears and
startled her greatly. She looked intently at the grasshopper, her eyes
wide with fear at first; then she knelt down and, noticing the wooden
leg, she began to weep sorrowfully.

"Oh, Cap'n Bill--dear Cap'n Bill! What a cruel thing to do!" she sobbed.

"Don't cry, Trot," begged the grasshopper. "It didn't hurt any, and it
doesn't hurt now. But it's mighty inconvenient an' humiliatin', to say
the least."

"I wish," said the girl indignantly, while trying hard to restrain her
tears, "that I was big 'nough an' strong 'nough to give that horrid
witch a good beating. She ought to be turned into a toad for doing this
to you, Cap'n Bill!"

"Never mind," urged the Scarecrow, in a comforting voice, "such a
transformation doesn't last always, and as a general thing there's some
way to break the enchantment. I'm sure Glinda could do it, in a jiffy."

"Who is Glinda?" inquired Cap'n Bill.

Then the Scarecrow told them all about Glinda, not forgetting to
mention her beauty and goodness and her wonderful powers of magic. He
also explained how the Royal Sorceress had sent him to Jinxland
especially to help the strangers, whom she knew to be in danger because
of the wiles of the cruel King and the Wicked Witch.




Chapter Sixteen

Pon Summons the King to Surrender


Gloria had drawn near to the group to listen to their talk, and it
seemed to interest her in spite of her frigid manner. They knew, of
course, that the poor Princess could not help being cold and reserved,
so they tried not to blame her.

"I ought to have come here a little sooner," said the Scarecrow,
regretfully; "but Glinda sent me as soon as she discovered you were
here and were likely to get into trouble. And now that we are all
together--except Button-Bright, over whom it is useless to worry--I
propose we hold a council of war, to decide what is best to be done."

That seemed a wise thing to do, so they all sat down upon the grass,
including Gloria, and the grasshopper perched upon Trot's shoulder and
allowed her to stroke him gently with her hand.

"In the first place," began the Scarecrow, "this King Krewl is a
usurper and has no right to rule this Kingdom of Jinxland."

"That is true," said Pon, eagerly. "My father was King before him, and
I--"

"You are a gardener's boy," interrupted the Scarecrow. "Your father had
no right to rule, either, for the rightful King of this land was the
father of Princess Gloria, and only she is entitled to sit upon the
throne of Jinxland."

"Good!" exclaimed Trot. "But what'll we do with King Krewl? I s'pose he
won't give up the throne unless he has to."

"No, of course not," said the Scarecrow. "Therefore it will be our duty
to make him give up the throne."

"How?" asked Trot.

"Give me time to think," was the reply. "That's what my brains are for.
I don't know whether you people ever think, or not, but my brains are
the best that the Wizard of Oz ever turned out, and if I give them
plenty of time to work, the result usually surprises me."

"Take your time, then," suggested Trot. "There's no hurry."

"Thank you," said the straw man, and sat perfectly still for half an
hour. During this interval the grasshopper whispered in Trot's ear, to
which he was very close, and Trot whispered back to the grasshopper
sitting upon her shoulder. Pon cast loving glances at Gloria, who paid
not the slightest heed to them.

Finally the Scarecrow laughed aloud.

"Brains working?" inquired Trot.

"Yes. They seem in fine order to-day. We will conquer King Krewl and
put Gloria upon his throne as Queen of Jinxland."

"Fine!" cried the little girl, clapping her hands together gleefully.
"But how?"

"Leave the how to me," said the Scarecrow proudly. "As a conqueror I'm
a wonder. We will, first of all, write a message to send to King Krewl,
asking him to surrender. If he refuses, then we will make him
surrender."

"Why ask him, when we know he'll refuse?" inquired Pon.

"Why, we must be polite, whatever we do," explained the Scarecrow. "It
would be very rude to conquer a King without proper notice."

They found it difficult to write a message without paper, pen and ink,
none of which was at hand; so it was decided to send Pon as a
messenger, with instructions to ask the King, politely but firmly, to
surrender.

Pon was not anxious to be the messenger. Indeed, he hinted that it
might prove a dangerous mission. But the Scarecrow was now the
acknowledged head of the Army of Conquest, and he would listen to no
refusal. So off Pon started for the King's castle, and the others
accompanied him as far as his hut, where they had decided to await the
gardener's boy's return.

I think it was because Pon had known the Scarecrow such a short time
that he lacked confidence in the straw man's wisdom. It was easy to
say: "We will conquer King Krewl," but when Pon drew near to the great
castle he began to doubt the ability of a straw-stuffed man, a girl, a
grasshopper and a frozen-hearted Princess to do it. As for himself, he
had never thought of defying the King before.

That was why the gardener's boy was not very bold when he entered the
castle and passed through to the enclosed court where the King was just
then seated, with his favorite courtiers around him. None prevented
Pon's entrance, because he was known to be the gardener's boy, but when
the King saw him he began to frown fiercely. He considered Pon to be to
blame for all his trouble with Princess Gloria, who since her heart had
been frozen had escaped to some unknown place, instead of returning to
the castle to wed Googly-Goo, as she had been expected to do. So the
King bared his teeth angrily as he demanded:

"What have you done with Princess Gloria?"

"Nothing, your Majesty! I have done nothing at all," answered Pon in a
faltering voice. "She does not love me any more and even refuses to
speak to me."

"Then why are you here, you rascal?" roared the King.

Pon looked first one way and then another, but saw no means of escape;
so he plucked up courage.

"I am here to summon your Majesty to surrender."

"What!" shouted the King. "Surrender?  Surrender to whom?"

Pon's heart sank to his boots.

"To the Scarecrow," he replied.

Some of the courtiers began to titter, but King Krewl was greatly
annoyed. He sprang up and began to beat poor Pon with the golden staff
he carried. Pon howled lustily and would have run away had not two of
the soldiers held him until his Majesty was exhausted with punishing
the boy. Then they let him go and he left the castle and returned along
the road, sobbing at every step because his body was so sore and aching.

"Well," said the Scarecrow, "did the King surrender?"

"No; but he gave me a good drubbing!" sobbed poor Pon.

Trot was very sorry for Pon, but Gloria did not seem affected in any
way by her lover's anguish. The grasshopper leaped to the Scarecrow's
shoulder and asked him what he was going to do next.

"Conquer," was the reply. "But I will go alone, this time, for beatings
cannot hurt me at all; nor can lance thrusts--or sword cuts--or arrow
pricks."

"Why is that?" inquired Trot.

"Because I have no nerves, such as you meat people possess. Even
grasshoppers have nerves, but straw doesn't; so whatever they
do--except just one thing--they cannot injure me. Therefore I expect to
conquer King Krewl with ease."

"What is that one thing you excepted?" asked Trot.

"They will never think of it, so never mind. And now, if you will
kindly excuse me for a time, I'll go over to the castle and do my
conquering."

"You have no weapons," Pon reminded him.

"True," said the Scarecrow. "But if I carried weapons I might injure
someone--perhaps seriously--and that would make me unhappy. I will just
borrow that riding-whip, which I see in the corner of your hut, if you
don't mind. It isn't exactly proper to walk with a riding-whip, but I
trust you will excuse the inconsistency."

Pon handed him the whip and the Scarecrow bowed to all the party and
left the hut, proceeding leisurely along the way to the King's castle.




Chapter Seventeen

The Ork Rescues Button-Bright


I must now tell you what had become of Button-Bright since he wandered
away in the morning and got lost. This small boy, as perhaps you have
discovered, was almost as destitute of nerves as the Scarecrow. Nothing
ever astonished him much; nothing ever worried him or made him unhappy.
Good fortune or bad fortune he accepted with a quiet smile, never
complaining, whatever happened. This was one reason why Button-Bright
was a favorite with all who knew him--and perhaps it was the reason why
he so often got into difficulties, or found himself lost.

To-day, as he wandered here and there, over hill and down dale, he
missed Trot and Cap'n Bill, of whom he was fond, but nevertheless he
was not unhappy. The birds sang merrily and the wildflowers were
beautiful and the breeze had a fragrance of new-mown hay.

"The only bad thing about this country is its King," he reflected; "but
the country isn't to blame for that."

A prairie-dog stuck its round head out of a mound of earth and looked
at the boy with bright eyes.

"Walk around my house, please," it said, "and then you won't harm it or
disturb the babies."

"All right," answered Button-Bright, and took care not to step on the
mound. He went on, whistling merrily, until a petulant voice cried:

"Oh, stop it! Please stop that noise. It gets on my nerves."

Button-Bright saw an old gray owl sitting in the crotch of a tree, and
he replied with a laugh: "All right, old Fussy," and stopped whistling
until he had passed out of the owl's hearing. At noon he came to a
farmhouse where an aged couple lived. They gave him a good dinner and
treated him kindly, but the man was deaf and the woman was dumb, so
they could answer no questions to guide him on the way to Pon's house.
When he left them he was just as much lost as he had been before.

Every grove of trees he saw from a distance he visited, for he
remembered that the King's castle was near a grove of trees and Pon's
hut was near the King's castle; but always he met with disappointment.
Finally, passing through one of these groves, he came out into the open
and found himself face to face with the Ork.

"Hello!" said Button-Bright. "Where did you come from?"

"From Orkland," was the reply. "I've found my own country, at last, and
it is not far from here, either. I would have come back to you sooner,
to see how you are getting along, had not my family and friends
welcomed my return so royally that a great celebration was held in my
honor. So I couldn't very well leave Orkland again until the excitement
was over."

"Can you find your way back home again?" asked the boy.

"Yes, easily; for now I know exactly where it is. But where are Trot
and Cap'n Bill?"

Button-Bright related to the Ork their adventures since it had left
them in Jinxland, telling of Trot's fear that the King had done
something wicked to Cap'n Bill, and of Pon's love for Gloria, and how
Trot and Button-Bright had been turned out of the King's castle. That
was all the news that the boy had, but it made the Ork anxious for the
safety of his friends.

"We must go to them at once, for they may need us," he said.

"I don't know where to go," confessed Button-Bright. "I'm lost."

"Well, I can take you back to the hut of the gardener's boy," promised
the Ork, "for when I fly high in the air I can look down and easily spy
the King's castle. That was how I happened to spy you, just entering
the grove; so I flew down and waited until you came out."

"How can you carry me?" asked the boy.

"You'll have to sit straddle my shoulders and put your arms around my
neck. Do you think you can keep from falling off?"

"I'll try," said Button-Bright. So the Ork squatted down and the boy
took his seat and held on tight. Then the skinny creature's tail began
whirling and up they went, far above all the tree-tops.

After the Ork had circled around once or twice, its sharp eyes located
the towers of the castle and away it flew, straight toward the place.
As it hovered in the air, near by the castle, Button-Bright pointed out
Pon's hut, so they landed just before it and Trot came running out to
greet them.

Gloria was introduced to the Ork, who was surprised to find Cap'n Bill
transformed into a grasshopper.

"How do you like it?" asked the creature.

"Why, it worries me good deal," answered Cap'n Bill, perched upon
Trot's shoulder. "I'm always afraid o' bein' stepped on, and I don't
like the flavor of grass an' can't seem to get used to it. It's my
nature to eat grass, you know, but I begin to suspect it's an acquired
taste."

"Can you give molasses?" asked the Ork.

"I guess I'm not that kind of a grasshopper," replied Cap'n Bill. "But
I can't say what I might do if I was squeezed--which I hope I won't be."

"Well," said the Ork, "it's a great pity, and I'd like to meet that
cruel King and his Wicked Witch and punish them both severely. You're
awfully small, Cap'n Bill, but I think I would recognize you anywhere
by your wooden leg."

Then the Ork and Button-Bright were told all about Gloria's frozen
heart and how the Scarecrow had come from the Land of Oz to help them.
The Ork seemed rather disturbed when it learned that the Scarecrow had
gone alone to conquer King Krewl.

"I'm afraid he'll make a fizzle of it," said the skinny creature, "and
there's no telling what that terrible King might do to the poor
Scarecrow, who seems like a very interesting person. So I believe I'll
take a hand in this conquest myself."

"How?" asked Trot.

"Wait and see," was the reply. "But, first of all, I must fly home
again--back to my own country--so if you'll forgive my leaving you so
soon, I'll be off at once. Stand away from my tail, please, so that the
wind from it, when it revolves, won't knock you over."

They gave the creature plenty of room and away it went like a flash and
soon disappeared in the sky.

"I wonder," said Button-Bright, looking solemnly after the Ork,
"whether he'll ever come back again."

"Of course he will!" returned Trot. "The Ork's a pretty good fellow,
and we can depend on him. An' mark my words, Button-Bright, whenever
our Ork does come back, there's one cruel King in Jinxland that'll wish
he hadn't."




Chapter Eighteen

The Scarecrow Meets an Enemy


The Scarecrow was not a bit afraid of King Krewl. Indeed, he rather
enjoyed the prospect of conquering the evil King and putting Gloria on
the throne of Jinxland in his place. So he advanced boldly to the royal
castle and demanded admittance.

Seeing that he was a stranger, the soldiers allowed him to enter. He
made his way straight to the throne room, where at that time his
Majesty was settling the disputes among his subjects.

"Who are you?" demanded the King.

"I'm the Scarecrow of Oz, and I command you to surrender yourself my
prisoner."

"Why should I do that?" inquired the King, much astonished at the straw
man's audacity.

"Because I've decided you are too cruel a King to rule so beautiful a
country. You must remember that Jinxland is a part of Oz, and therefore
you owe allegiance to Ozma of Oz, whose friend and servant I am."

Now, when he heard this, King Krewl was much disturbed in mind, for he
knew the Scarecrow spoke the truth. But no one had ever before come to
Jinxland from the Land of Oz and the King did not intend to be put out
of his throne if he could help it. Therefore he gave a harsh, wicked
laugh of derision and said:

"I'm busy, now. Stand out of my way, Scarecrow, and I'll talk with you
by and by."

But the Scarecrow turned to the assembled courtiers and people and
called in a loud voice:

"I hereby declare, in the name of Ozma of Oz, that this man is no
longer ruler of Jinxland. From this moment Princess Gloria is your
rightful Queen, and I ask all of you to be loyal to her and to obey her
commands."

The people looked fearfully at the King, whom they all hated in their
hearts, but likewise feared. Krewl was now in a terrible rage and he
raised his golden sceptre and struck the Scarecrow so heavy a blow that
he fell to the floor.

But he was up again, in an instant, and with Pon's riding-whip he
switched the King so hard that the wicked monarch roared with pain as
much as with rage, calling on his soldiers to capture the Scarecrow.

They tried to do that, and thrust their lances and swords into the
straw body, but without doing any damage except to make holes in the
Scarecrow's clothes. However, they were many against one and finally
old Googly-Goo brought a rope which he wound around the Scarecrow,
binding his legs together and his arms to his sides, and after that the
fight was over.

The King stormed and danced around in a dreadful fury, for he had never
been so switched since he was a boy--and perhaps not then. He ordered
the Scarecrow thrust into the castle prison, which was no task at all
because one man could carry him easily, bound as he was.

Even after the prisoner was removed the King could not control his
anger. He tried to figure out some way to be revenged upon the straw
man, but could think of nothing that could hurt him. At last, when the
terrified people and the frightened courtiers had all slunk away, old
Googly-Goo approached the king with a malicious grin upon his face.

"I'll tell you what to do," said he. "Build a big bonfire and burn the
Scarecrow up, and that will be the end of him."

The King was so delighted with this suggestion that he hugged old
Googly-Goo in his joy.

"Of course!" he cried. "The very thing. Why did I not think of it
myself?"

So he summoned his soldiers and retainers and bade them prepare a great
bonfire in an open space in the castle park. Also he sent word to all
his people to assemble and witness the destruction of the Scarecrow who
had dared to defy his power. Before long a vast throng gathered in the
park and the servants had heaped up enough fuel to make a fire that
might be seen for miles away--even in the daytime.

When all was prepared, the King had his throne brought out for him to
sit upon and enjoy the spectacle, and then he sent his soldiers to
fetch the Scarecrow.

Now the one thing in all the world that the straw man really feared was
fire. He knew he would burn very easily and that his ashes wouldn't
amount to much afterward. It wouldn't hurt him to be destroyed in such
a manner, but he realized that many people in the Land of Oz, and
especially Dorothy and the Royal Ozma, would feel sad if they learned
that their old friend the Scarecrow was no longer in existence.

In spite of this, the straw man was brave and faced his fiery fate like
a hero. When they marched him out before the concourse of people he
turned to the King with great calmness and said:

"This wicked deed will cost you your throne, as well as much suffering,
for my friends will avenge my destruction."

"Your friends are not here, nor will they know what I have done to you,
when you are gone and can-not tell them," answered the King in a
scornful voice.

Then he ordered the Scarecrow bound to a stout stake that he had had
driven into the ground, and the materials for the fire were heaped all
around him. When this had been done, the King's brass band struck up a
lively tune and old Googly-Goo came forward with a lighted match and
set fire to the pile.

At once the flames shot up and crept closer and closer toward the
Scarecrow. The King and all his people were so intent upon this
terrible spectacle that none of them noticed how the sky grew suddenly
dark. Perhaps they thought that the loud buzzing sound--like the noise
of a dozen moving railway trains--came from the blazing fagots; that
the rush of wind was merely a breeze. But suddenly down swept a flock
of Orks, half a hundred of them at the least, and the powerful currents
of air caused by their revolving tails sent the bonfire scattering in
every direction, so that not one burning brand ever touched the
Scarecrow.

But that was not the only effect of this sudden tornado. King Krewl was
blown out of his throne and went tumbling heels over head until he
landed with a bump against the stone wall of his own castle, and before
he could rise a big Ork sat upon him and held him pressed flat to the
ground. Old Googly-Goo shot up into the air like a rocket and landed on
a tree, where he hung by the middle on a high limb, kicking the air
with his feet and clawing the air with his hands, and howling for mercy
like the coward he was.

The people pressed back until they were jammed close together, while
all the soldiers were knocked over and sent sprawling to the earth. The
excitement was great for a few minutes, and every frightened inhabitant
of Jinxland looked with awe and amazement at the great Orks whose
descent had served to rescue the Scarecrow and conquer King Krewl at
one and the same time.

The Ork, who was the leader of the band, soon had the Scarecrow free of
his bonds. Then he said: "Well, we were just in time to save you, which
is better than being a minute too late. You are now the master here,
and we are determined to see your orders obeyed."

With this the Ork picked up Krewl's golden crown, which had fallen off
his head, and placed it upon the head of the Scarecrow, who in his
awkward way then shuffled over to the throne and sat down in it.

Seeing this, a rousing cheer broke from the crowd of people, who tossed
their hats and waved their handkerchiefs and hailed the Scarecrow as
their King. The soldiers joined the people in the cheering, for now
they fully realized that their hated master was conquered and it would
be wise to show their good will to the conqueror. Some of them bound
Krewl with ropes and dragged him forward, dumping his body on the
ground before the Scarecrow's throne. Googly-Goo struggled until he
finally slid off the limb of the tree and came tumbling to the ground.
He then tried to sneak away and escape, but the soldiers seized and
bound him beside Krewl.

"The tables are turned," said the Scarecrow, swelling out his chest
until the straw within it crackled pleasantly, for he was highly
pleased; "but it was you and your people who did it, friend Ork, and
from this time you may count me your humble servant."




Chapter Nineteen

The Conquest of the Witch


Now as soon as the conquest of King Krewl had taken place, one of the
Orks had been dispatched to Pon's house with the joyful news. At once
Gloria and Pon and Trot and Button-Bright hastened toward the castle.
They were somewhat surprised by the sight that met their eyes, for
there was the Scarecrow, crowned King, and all the people kneeling
humbly before him. So they likewise bowed low to the new ruler and then
stood beside the throne. Cap'n Bill, as the gray grasshopper, was still
perched upon Trot's shoulder, but now he hopped to the shoulder of the
Scarecrow and whispered into the painted ear:

"I thought Gloria was to be Queen of Jinxland."

The Scarecrow shook his head.

"Not yet," he answered. "No Queen with a frozen heart is fit to rule
any country." Then he turned to his new friend, the Ork, who was
strutting about, very proud of what he had done, and said: "Do you
suppose you, or your followers, could find old Blinkie the Witch?"

"Where is she?" asked the Ork.

"Somewhere in Jinxland, I'm sure."

"Then," said the Ork, "we shall certainly be able to find her."

"It will give me great pleasure," declared the Scarecrow. "When you
have found her, bring her here to me, and I will then decide what to do
with her."

The Ork called his followers together and spoke a few words to them in
a low tone. A moment after they rose into the air--so suddenly that the
Scarecrow, who was very light in weight, was blown quite out of his
throne and into the arms of Pon, who replaced him carefully upon his
seat. There was an eddy of dust and ashes, too, and the grasshopper
only saved himself from being whirled into the crowd of people by
jumping into a tree, from where a series of hops soon brought him back
to Trot's shoulder again. The Orks were quite out of sight by this
time, so the Scarecrow made a speech to the people and presented Gloria
to them, whom they knew well already and were fond of. But not all of
them knew of her frozen heart, and when the Scarecrow related the story
of the Wicked Witch's misdeeds, which had been encouraged and paid for
by Krewl and Googly-Goo, the people were very indignant.

Meantime the fifty Orks had scattered all over Jinx land, which is not
a very big country, and their sharp eyes were peering into every valley
and grove and gully. Finally one of them spied a pair of heels sticking
out from underneath some bushes, and with a shrill whistle to warn his
comrades that the witch was found the Ork flew down and dragged old
Blinkie from her hiding-place. Then two or three of the Orks seized the
clothing of the wicked woman in their strong claws and, lifting her
high in the air, where she struggled and screamed to no avail, they
flew with her straight to the royal castle and set her down before the
throne of the Scarecrow.

"Good!" exclaimed the straw man, nodding his stuffed head with
satisfaction. "Now we can proceed to business. Mistress Witch, I am
obliged to request, gently but firmly, that you undo all the wrongs you
have done by means of your witchcraft."

"Pah!" cried old Blinkie in a scornful voice. "I defy you all! By my
magic powers I can turn you all into pigs, rooting in the mud, and I'll
do it if you are not careful."

"I think you are mistaken about that," said the Scarecrow, and rising
from his throne he walked with wobbling steps to the side of the Wicked
Witch. "Before I left the Land of Oz, Glinda the Royal Sorceress gave
me a box, which I was not to open except in an emergency. But I feel
pretty sure that this occasion is an emergency; don't you, Trot?" he
asked, turning toward the little girl.

"Why, we've got to do something," replied Trot seriously. "Things seem
in an awful muddle here, jus' now, and they'll be worse if we don't
stop this witch from doing more harm to people."

"That is my idea, exactly," said the Scarecrow, and taking a small box
from his pocket he opened the cover and tossed the contents toward
Blinkie.

The old woman shrank back, pale and trembling, as a fine white dust
settled all about her. Under its influence she seemed to the eyes of
all observers to shrivel and grow smaller.

"Oh, dear--oh, dear!" she wailed, wringing her hands in fear. "Haven't
you the antidote, Scarecrow? Didn't the great Sorceress give you
another box?"

"She did," answered the Scarecrow.

"Then give it me--quick!" pleaded the witch. "Give it me--and I'll do
anything you ask me to!"

"You will do what I ask first," declared the Scarecrow, firmly.

The witch was shriveling and growing smaller every moment.

"Be quick, then!" she cried. "Tell me what I must do and let me do it,
or it will be too late."

"You made Trot's friend, Cap'n Bill, a grasshopper. I command you to
give him back his proper form again," said the Scarecrow.

"Where is he? Where's the grasshopper? Quick--quick!" she screamed.

Cap'n Bill, who had been deeply interested in this conversation, gave a
great leap from Trot's shoulder and landed on that of the Scarecrow.
Blinkie saw him alight and at once began to make magic passes and to
mumble magic incantations. She was in a desperate hurry, knowing that
she had no time to waste, and the grasshopper was so suddenly
transformed into the old sailor-man, Cap'n Bill, that he had no
opportunity to jump off the Scarecrow's shoulder; so his great weight
bore the stuffed Scarecrow to the ground. No harm was done, however,
and the straw man got up and brushed the dust from his clothes while
Trot delightedly embraced Cap'n Bill.

"The other box! Quick! Give me the other box," begged Blinkie, who had
now shrunk to half her former size.

"Not yet," said the Scarecrow. "You must first melt Princess Gloria's
frozen heart."

"I can't; it's an awful job to do that! I can't," asserted the witch,
in an agony of fear--for still she was growing smaller.

"You must!" declared the Scarecrow, firmly.

The witch cast a shrewd look at him and saw that he meant it; so she
began dancing around Gloria in a frantic manner. The Princess looked
coldly on, as if not at all interested in the proceedings, while
Blinkie tore a handful of hair from her own head and ripped a strip of
cloth from the bottom of her gown. Then the witch sank upon her knees,
took a purple powder from her black bag and sprinkled it over the hair
and cloth.

"I hate to do it--I  hate to do it!" she wailed, "for there is no more
of this magic compound in all the world. But I must sacrifice it to
save my own life. A match! Give me a match, quick!" and panting from
lack of breath she gazed imploringly from one to another.

Cap'n Bill was the only one who had a match, but he lost no time in
handing it to Blinkie, who quickly set fire to the hair and the cloth
and the purple powder. At once a purple cloud enveloped Gloria, and
this gradually turned to a rosy pink color--brilliant and quite
transparent. Through the rosy cloud they could all see the beautiful
Princess, standing proud and erect. Then her heart became visible, at
first frosted with ice but slowly growing brighter and warmer until all
the frost had disappeared and it was beating as softly and regularly as
any other heart. And now the cloud dispersed and disclosed Gloria, her
face suffused with joy, smiling tenderly upon the friends who were
grouped about her.

Poor Pon stepped forward--timidly, fearing a repulse, but with pleading
eyes and arms fondly outstretched toward his former sweetheart--and the
Princess saw him and her sweet face lighted with a radiant smile.
Without an instant's hesitation she threw herself into Pon's arms and
this reunion of two loving hearts was so affecting that the people
turned away and lowered their eyes so as not to mar the sacred joy of
the faithful lovers.

But Blinkie's small voice was shouting to the Scarecrow for help.

"The antidote!" she screamed. "Give me the other box--quick!"

The Scarecrow looked at the witch with his quaint, painted eyes and saw
that she was now no taller than his knee. So he took from his pocket
the second box and scattered its contents on Blinkie. She ceased to
grow any smaller, but she could never regain her former size, and this
the wicked old woman well knew.

She did not know, however, that the second powder had destroyed all her
power to work magic, and seeking to be revenged upon the Scarecrow and
his friends she at once began to mumble a charm so terrible in its
effect that it would have destroyed half the population of
Jinxland--had it worked. But it did not work at all, to the amazement
of old Blinkie. And by this time the Scarecrow noticed what the little
witch was trying to do, and said to her:

"Go home, Blinkie, and behave yourself. You are no longer a witch, but
an ordinary old woman, and since you are powerless to do more evil I
advise you to try to do some good in the world. Believe me, it is more
fun to accomplish a good act than an evil one, as you will discover
when once you have tried it."

But Blinkie was at that moment filled with grief and chagrin at losing
her magic powers. She started away toward her home, sobbing and
bewailing her fate, and not one who saw her go was at all sorry for her.




Chapter Twenty

Queen Gloria


Next morning the Scarecrow called upon all the courtiers and the people
to assemble in the throne room of the castle, where there was room
enough for all that were able to attend. They found the straw man
seated upon the velvet cushions of the throne, with the King's
glittering crown still upon his stuffed head. On one side of the
throne, in a lower chair, sat Gloria, looking radiantly beautiful and
fresh as a new-blown rose. On the other side sat Pon, the gardener's
boy, still dressed in his old smock frock and looking sad and solemn;
for Pon could not make himself believe that so splendid a Princess
would condescend to love him when she had come to her own and was
seated upon a throne. Trot and Cap'n Bill sat at the feet of the
Scarecrow and were much interested in the proceedings. Button-Bright
had lost himself before breakfast, but came into the throne room before
the ceremonies were over. Back of the throne stood a row of the great
Orks, with their leader in the center, and the entrance to the palace
was guarded by more Orks, who were regarded with wonder and awe.

When all were assembled, the Scarecrow stood up and made a speech. He
told how Gloria's father, the good King Kynd, who had once ruled them
and been loved by everyone, had been destroyed by King Phearce, the
father of Pon, and how King Phearce had been destroyed by King Krewl.
This last King had been a bad ruler, as they knew very well, and the
Scarecrow declared that the only one in all Jinxland who had the right
to sit upon the throne was Princess Gloria, the daughter of King Kynd.

"But," he added, "it is not for me, a stranger, to say who shall rule
you. You must decide for yourselves, or you will not be content. So
choose now who shall be your future ruler."

And they all shouted:  "The Scarecrow!  The Scarecrow shall rule us!"

Which proved that the stuffed man had made himself very popular by his
conquest of King Krewl, and the people thought they would like him for
their King. But the Scarecrow shook his head so vigorously that it
became loose, and Trot had to pin it firmly to his body again.

"No," said he, "I belong in the Land of Oz, where I am the humble
servant of the lovely girl who rules us all--the royal Ozma. You must
choose one of your own inhabitants to rule over Jinxland. Who shall it
be?"

They hesitated for a moment, and some few cried: "Pon!" but many more
shouted: "Gloria!"

So the Scarecrow took Gloria's hand and led her to the throne, where he
first seated her and then took the glittering crown off his own head
and placed it upon that of the young lady, where it nestled prettily
amongst her soft curls. The people cheered and shouted then, kneeling
before their new Queen; but Gloria leaned down and took Pon's hand in
both her own and raised him to the seat beside her.

"You shall have both a King and a Queen to care for you and to protect
you, my dear subjects," she said in a sweet voice, while her face
glowed with happiness; "for Pon was a King's son before he became a
gardener's boy, and because I love him he is to be my Royal Consort."

That pleased them all, especially Pon, who realized that this was the
most important moment of his life. Trot and Button-Bright and Cap'n
Will all congratulated him on winning the beautiful Gloria; but the Ork
sneezed twice and said that in his opinion the young lady might have
done better.

Then the Scarecrow ordered the guards to bring in the wicked Krewl,
King no longer, and when he appeared, loaded with chains and dressed in
fustian, the people hissed him and drew back as he passed so their
garments would not touch him.

Krewl was not haughty or overbearing any more; on the contrary he
seemed very meek and in great fear of the fate his conquerors had in
store for him. But Gloria and Pon were too happy to be revengeful and
so they offered to appoint Krewl to the position of gardener's boy at
the castle, Pon having resigned to become King. But they said he must
promise to reform his wicked ways and to do his duty faithfully, and he
must change his name from Krewl to Grewl. All this the man eagerly
promised to do, and so when Pon retired to a room in the castle to put
on princely raiment, the old brown smock he had formerly worn was given
to Grewl, who then went out into the garden to water the roses.

The remainder of that famous day, which was long remembered in
Jinxland, was given over to feasting and merrymaking. In the evening
there was a grand dance in the courtyard, where the brass band played a
new piece of music called the "Ork Trot" which was dedicated to "Our
Glorious Gloria, the Queen."

While the Queen and Pon were leading this dance, and all the Jinxland
people were having a good time, the strangers were gathered in a group
in the park outside the castle. Cap'n Bill, Trot, Button-Bright and the
Scarecrow were there, and so was their old friend the Ork; but of all
the great flock of Orks which had assisted in the conquest but three
remained in Jinxland, besides their leader, the others having returned
to their own country as soon as Gloria was crowned Queen. To the young
Ork who had accompanied them in their adventures Cap'n Bill said:

"You've surely been a friend in need, and we're mighty grateful to you
for helping us. I might have been a grasshopper yet if it hadn't been
for you, an' I might remark that bein' a grasshopper isn't much fun."

"If it hadn't been for you, friend Ork," said the Scarecrow, "I fear I
could not have conquered King Krewl."

"No," agreed Trot, "you'd have been just a heap of ashes by this time."

"And I might have been lost yet," added Button-Bright. "Much obliged,
Mr. Ork."

"Oh, that's all right," replied the Ork. "Friends must stand together,
you know, or they wouldn't be friends. But now I must leave you and be
off to my own country, where there's going to be a surprise party on my
uncle, and I've promised to attend it."

"Dear me," said the Scarecrow, regretfully. "That is very unfortunate."

"Why so?" asked the Ork.

"I hoped you would consent to carry us over those mountains, into the
Land of Oz. My mission here is now finished and I want to get back to
the Emerald City."

"How did you cross the mountains before?" inquired the Ork.

"I scaled the cliffs by means of a rope, and crossed the Great Gulf on
a strand of spider web. Of course I can return in the same manner, but
it would be a hard journey--and perhaps an impossible one--for Trot and
Button-Bright and Cap'n Bill. So I thought that if you had the time you
and your people would carry us over the mountains and land us all
safely on the other side, in the Land of Oz."

The Ork thoughtfully considered the matter for a while. Then he said:

"I mustn't break my promise to be present at the surprise party; but,
tell me, could you go to Oz to-night?"

"What, now?" exclaimed Trot.

"It is a fine moonlight night," said the Ork, "and I've found in my
experience that there's no time so good as right away. The fact is," he
explained, "it's a long journey to Orkland and I and my cousins here
are all rather tired by our day's work. But if you will start now, and
be content to allow us to carry you over the mountains and dump you on
the other side, just say the word and--off we go!"

Cap'n Bill and Trot looked at one another questioningly. The little
girl was eager to visit the famous fairyland of Oz and the old sailor
had endured such hardships in Jinxland that he would be glad to be out
of it.

"It's rather impolite of us not to say good-bye to the new King and
Queen," remarked the Scarecrow, "but I'm sure they're too happy to miss
us, and I assure you it will be much easier to fly on the backs of the
Orks over those steep mountains than to climb them as I did."

"All right; let's go!" Trot decided. "But where's Button-Bright?"

Just at this important moment Button-Bright was lost again, and they
all scattered in search of him. He had been standing beside them just a
few minutes before, but his friends had an exciting hunt for him before
they finally discovered the boy seated among the members of the band,
beating the end of the bass drum with the bone of a turkey-leg that he
had taken from the table in the banquet room.

"Hello, Trot," he said, looking up at the little girl when she found
him. "This is the first chance I ever had to pound a drum with a
reg'lar drum stick. And I ate all the meat off the bone myself."

"Come quick. We're going to the Land of Oz."

"Oh, what's the hurry?" said Button-Bright; but she seized his arm and
dragged him away to the park, where the others were waiting.

Trot climbed upon the back of her old friend, the Ork leader, and the
others took their seats on the backs of his three cousins. As soon as
all were placed and clinging to the skinny necks of the creatures, the
revolving tails began to whirl and up rose the four monster Orks and
sailed away toward the mountains. They were so high in the air that
when they passed the crest of the highest peak it seemed far below
them. No sooner were they well across the barrier than the Orks swooped
downward and landed their passengers upon the ground.

"Here we are, safe in the Land of Oz!" cried the Scarecrow joyfully.

"Oh, are we?" asked Trot, looking around her curiously.

She could see the shadows of stately trees and the outlines of rolling
hills; beneath her feet was soft turf, but otherwise the subdued light
of the moon disclosed nothing clearly.

"Seems jus' like any other country," was Cap'n Bill's comment.

"But it isn't," the Scarecrow assured him. "You are now within the
borders of the most glorious fairyland in all the world. This part of
it is just a corner of the Quadling Country, and the least interesting
portion of it. It's not very thickly settled, around here, I'll admit,
but--"

He was interrupted by a sudden whir and a rush of air as the four Orks
mounted into the sky.

"Good night!" called the shrill voices of the strange creatures, and
although Trot shouted "Good night!" as loudly as she could, the little
girl was almost ready to cry because the Orks had not waited to be
properly thanked for all their kindness to her and to Cap'n Bill.

But the Orks were gone, and thanks for good deeds do not amount to much
except to prove one's politeness.

"Well, friends," said the Scarecrow, "we mustn't stay here in the
meadows all night, so let us find a pleasant place to sleep. Not that
it matters to me, in the least, for I never sleep; but I know that meat
people like to shut their eyes and lie still during the dark hours."

"I'm pretty tired," admitted Trot, yawning as she followed the straw
man along a tiny path, "so, if you don't find a house handy, Cap'n Bill
and I will sleep under the trees, or even on this soft grass."

But a house was not very far off, although when the Scarecrow stumbled
upon it there was no light in it whatever. Cap'n Bill knocked on the
door several times, and there being no response the Scarecrow boldly
lifted the latch and walked in, followed by the others. And no sooner
had they entered than a soft light filled the room. Trot couldn't tell
where it came from, for no lamp of any sort was visible, but she did
not waste much time on this problem, because directly in the center of
the room stood a table set for three, with lots of good food on it and
several of the dishes smoking hot.

The little girl and Button-Bright both uttered exclamations of
pleasure, but they looked in vain for any cook stove or fireplace, or
for any person who might have prepared for them this delicious feast.

"It's fairyland," muttered the boy, tossing his cap in a corner and
seating himself at the table. "This supper smells 'most as good as that
turkey-leg I had in Jinxland. Please pass the muffins, Cap'n Bill."

Trot thought it was strange that no people but themselves were in the
house, but on the wall opposite the door was a gold frame bearing in
big letters the word:

"WELCOME."

So she had no further hesitation in eating of the food so mysteriously
prepared for them.

"But there are only places for three!" she exclaimed.

"Three are quite enough," said the Scarecrow. "I never eat, because I
am stuffed full already, and I like my nice clean straw better than I
do food."

Trot and the sailor-man were hungry and made a hearty meal, for not
since they had left home had they tasted such good food. It was
surprising that Button-Bright could eat so soon after his feast in
Jinxland, but the boy always ate whenever there was an opportunity. "If
I don't eat now," he said, "the next time I'm hungry I'll wish I had."

"Really, Cap'n," remarked Trot, when she found a dish of ice-cream
appear beside her plate, "I b'lieve this is fairyland, sure enough."

"There's no doubt of it, Trot," he answered gravely

"I've been here before," said Button-Bright, "so I know."

After supper they discovered three tiny bedrooms adjoining the big
living room of the house, and in each room was a comfortable white bed
with downy pillows. You may be sure that the tired mortals were not
long in bidding the Scarecrow good night and creeping into their beds,
where they slept soundly until morning.

For the first time since they set eyes on the terrible whirlpool, Trot
and Cap'n Bill were free from anxiety and care. Button-Bright never
worried about anything. The Scarecrow, not being able to sleep, looked
out of the window and tried to count the stars.




Chapter Twenty-One

Dorothy, Betsy and Ozma


I suppose many of my readers have read descriptions of the beautiful
and magnificent Emerald City of Oz, so I need not describe it here,
except to state that never has any city in any fairyland ever equalled
this one in stately splendor. It lies almost exactly in the center of
the Land of Oz, and in the center of the Emerald City rises the wall of
glistening emeralds that surrounds the palace of Ozma. The palace is
almost a city in itself and is inhabited by many of the Ruler's
especial friends and those who have won her confidence and favor. As
for Ozma herself, there are no words in any dictionary I can find that
are fitted to describe this young girl's beauty of mind and person.
Merely to see her is to love her for her charming face and manners; to
know her is to love her for her tender sympathy, her generous nature,
her truth and honor. Born of a long line of Fairy Queens, Ozma is as
nearly perfect as any fairy may be, and she is noted for her wisdom as
well as for her other qualities. Her happy subjects adore their girl
Ruler and each one considers her a comrade and protector.

At the time of which I write, Ozma's best friend and most constant
companion was a little Kansas girl named Dorothy, a mortal who had come
to the Land of Oz in a very curious manner and had been offered a home
in Ozma's palace. Furthermore, Dorothy had been made a Princess of Oz,
and was as much at home in the royal palace as was the gentle Ruler.
She knew almost every part of the great country and almost all of its
numerous inhabitants. Next to Ozma she was loved better than anyone in
all Oz, for Dorothy was simple and sweet, seldom became angry and had
such a friendly, chummy way that she made friends where-ever she
wandered. It was she who first brought the Scarecrow and the Tin
Woodman and the Cowardly Lion to the Emerald City. Dorothy had also
introduced to Ozma the Shaggy Man and the Hungry Tiger, as well as
Billina the Yellow Hen, Eureka the Pink Kitten, and many other
delightful characters and creatures. Coming as she did from our world,
Dorothy was much like many other girls we know; so there were times
when she was not so wise as she might have been, and other times when
she was obstinate and got herself into trouble. But life in a
fairy-land had taught the little girl to accept all sorts of surprising
things as matters-of-course, for while Dorothy was no fairy--but just
as mortal as we are--she had seen more wonders than most mortals ever
do.

Another little girl from our outside world also lived in Ozma's palace.
This was Betsy Bobbin, whose strange adventures had brought her to the
Emerald City, where Ozma had cordially welcomed her. Betsy was a shy
little thing and could never get used to the marvels that surrounded
her, but she and Dorothy were firm friends and thought themselves very
fortunate in being together in this delightful country.

One day Dorothy and Betsy were visiting Ozma in the girl Ruler's
private apartment, and among the things that especially interested them
was Ozma's Magic Picture, set in a handsome frame and hung upon the
wall of the room. This picture was a magic one because it constantly
changed its scenes and showed events and adventures happening in all
parts of the world. Thus it was really a "moving picture" of life, and
if the one who stood before it wished to know what any absent person
was doing, the picture instantly showed that person, with his or her
surroundings.

The two girls were not wishing to see anyone in particular, on this
occasion, but merely enjoyed watching the shifting scenes, some of
which were exceedingly curious and remarkable. Suddenly Dorothy
exclaimed: "Why, there's Button-Bright!" and this drew Ozma also to
look at the picture, for she and Dorothy knew the boy well.

"Who is Button-Bright?" asked Betsy, who had never met him.

"Why, he's the little boy who is just getting off the back of that
strange flying creature," exclaimed Dorothy. Then she turned to Ozma
and asked: "What is that thing, Ozma? A bird? I've never seen anything
like it before."

"It is an Ork," answered Ozma, for they were watching the scene where
the Ork and the three big birds were first landing their passengers in
Jinxland after the long flight across the desert. "I wonder," added the
girl Ruler, musingly, "why those strangers dare venture into that
unfortunate country, which is ruled by a wicked King."

"That girl, and the one-legged man, seem to be mortals from the outside
world," said Dorothy.

"The man isn't one-legged," corrected Betsy; "he has one wooden leg."

"It's almost as bad," declared Dorothy, watching Cap'n Bill stump
around.

"They are three mortal adventurers," said Ozma, "and they seem worthy
and honest. But I fear they will be treated badly in Jinxland, and if
they meet with any misfortune there it will reflect upon me, for
Jinxland is a part of my dominions."

"Can't we help them in any way?" inquired Dorothy. "That seems like a
nice little girl. I'd be sorry if anything happened to her."

"Let us watch the picture for awhile," suggested Ozma, and so they all
drew chairs before the Magic Picture and followed the adventures of
Trot and Cap'n Bill and Button-Bright. Presently the scene shifted and
showed their friend the Scarecrow crossing the mountains into Jinxland,
and that somewhat relieved Ozma's anxiety, for she knew at once that
Glinda the Good had sent the Scarecrow to protect the strangers.

The adventures in Jinxland proved very interesting to the three girls
in Ozma's palace, who during the succeeding days spent much of their
time in watching the picture. It was like a story to them.

"That girl's a reg'lar trump!" exclaimed Dorothy, referring to Trot,
and Ozma answered:

"She's a dear little thing, and I'm sure nothing very bad will happen
to her. The old sailor is a fine character, too, for he has never once
grumbled over being a grasshopper, as so many would have done."

When the Scarecrow was so nearly burned up the girls all shivered a
little, and they clapped their hands in joy when the flock of Orks came
and saved him.

So it was that when all the exciting adventures in Jinxland were over
and the four Orks had begun their flight across the mountains to carry
the mortals into the Land of Oz, Ozma called the Wizard to her and
asked him to prepare a place for the strangers to sleep.

The famous Wizard of Oz was a quaint little man who inhabited the royal
palace and attended to all the magical things that Ozma wanted done. He
was not as powerful as Glinda, to be sure, but he could do a great many
wonderful things. He proved this by placing a house in the uninhabited
part of the Quadling Country where the Orks landed Cap'n Bill and Trot
and Button-Bright, and fitting it with all the comforts I have
described in the last chapter.

Next morning Dorothy said to Ozma:

"Oughtn't we to go meet the strangers, so we can show them the way to
the Emerald City? I'm sure that little girl will feel shy in this
beautiful land, and I know if 'twas me I'd like somebody to give me a
welcome."

Ozma smiled at her little friend and answered:

"You and Betsy may go to meet them, if you wish, but I can not leave my
palace just now, as I am to have a conference with Jack Pumpkinhead and
Professor Wogglebug on important matters. You may take the Sawhorse and
the Red Wagon, and if you start soon you will be able to meet the
Scarecrow and the strangers at Glinda's palace."

"Oh, thank you!" cried Dorothy, and went away to tell Betsy and to make
preparations for the journey.




Chapter Twenty-Two

The Waterfall


Glinda's castle was a long way from the mountains, but the Scarecrow
began the journey cheerfully, since time was of no great importance in
the Land of Oz and he had recently made the trip and knew the way. It
never mattered much to Button-Bright where he was or what he was doing;
the boy was content in being alive and having good companions to share
his wanderings. As for Trot and Cap'n Bill, they now found themselves
so comfortable and free from danger, in this fine fairyland, and they
were so awed and amazed by the adventures they were encountering, that
the journey to Glinda's castle was more like a pleasure trip than a
hardship, so many wonderful things were there to see.

Button-Bright had been in Oz before, but never in this part of it, so
the Scarecrow was the only one who knew the paths and could lead them.
They had eaten a hearty breakfast, which they found already prepared
for them and awaiting them on the table when they arose from their
refreshing sleep, so they left the magic house in a contented mood and
with hearts lighter and more happy than they had known for many a day.
As they marched along through the fields, the sun shone brightly and
the breeze was laden with delicious fragrance, for it carried with it
the breath of millions of wildflowers.

At noon, when they stopped to rest by the bank of a pretty river, Trot
said with a long-drawn breath that was much like a sigh:

"I wish we'd brought with us some of the food that was left from our
breakfast, for I'm getting hungry again."

Scarcely had she spoken when a table rose up before them, as if from
the ground itself, and it was loaded with fruits and nuts and cakes and
many other good things to eat. The little girl's eyes opened wide at
this display of magic, and Cap'n Bill was not sure that the things were
actually there and fit to eat until he had taken them in his hand and
tasted them. But the Scarecrow said with a laugh:

"Someone is looking after your welfare, that is certain, and from the
looks of this table I suspect my friend the Wizard has taken us in his
charge. I've known him to do things like this before, and if we are in
the Wizard's care you need not worry about your future."

"Who's worrying?" inquired Button-Bright, already at the table and
busily eating.

The Scarecrow looked around the place while the others were feasting,
and finding many things unfamiliar to him he shook his head and
remarked:

"I must have taken the wrong path, back in that last valley, for on my
way to Jinxland I remember that I passed around the foot of this river,
where there was a great waterfall."

"Did the river make a bend, after the waterfall?" asked Cap'n Bill.

"No, the river disappeared. Only a pool of whirling water showed what
had become of the river; but I suppose it is under ground, somewhere,
and will come to the surface again in another part of the country."

"Well," suggested Trot, as she finished her luncheon, "as there is no
way to cross this river, I s'pose we'll have to find that waterfall,
and go around it."

"Exactly," replied the Scarecrow; so they soon renewed their journey,
following the river for a long time until the roar of the waterfall
sounded in their ears. By and by they came to the waterfall itself, a
sheet of silver dropping far, far down into a tiny lake which seemed to
have no outlet. From the top of the fall, where they stood, the banks
gradually sloped away, so that the descent by land was quite easy,
while the river could do nothing but glide over an edge of rock and
tumble straight down to the depths below.

"You see," said the Scarecrow, leaning over the brink, "this is called
by our Oz people the Great Waterfall, because it is certainly the
highest one in all the land; but I think--Help!"

He had lost his balance and pitched headforemost into the river. They
saw a flash of straw and blue clothes, and the painted face looking
upward in surprise. The next moment the Scarecrow was swept over the
waterfall and plunged into the basin below.

The accident had happened so suddenly that for a moment they were all
too horrified to speak or move.

"Quick! We must go to help him or he will be drowned," Trot exclaimed.

Even while speaking she began to descend the bank to the pool below,
and Cap'n Bill followed as swiftly as his wooden leg would let him.
Button-Bright came more slowly, calling to the girl:

"He can't drown, Trot; he's a Scarecrow."

But she wasn't sure a Scarecrow couldn't drown and never relaxed her
speed until she stood on the edge of the pool, with the spray dashing
in her face. Cap'n Bill, puffing and panting, had just voice enough to
ask, as he reached her side:

"See him, Trot?"

"Not a speck of him.  Oh, Cap'n, what do you s'pose has become of him?"

"I s'pose," replied the sailor, "that he's in that water, more or less
far down, and I'm 'fraid it'll make his straw pretty soggy. But as fer
his bein' drowned, I agree with Button-Bright that it can't be done."

There was small comfort in this assurance and Trot stood for some time
searching with her eyes the bubbling water, in the hope that the
Scarecrow would finally come to the surface. Presently she heard
Button-Bright calling: "Come here, Trot!" and looking around she saw
that the boy had crept over the wet rocks to the edge of the waterfall
and seemed to be peering behind it. Making her way toward him, she
asked:

"What do you see?"

"A cave," he answered. "Let's go in. P'r'aps we'll find the Scarecrow
there."

She was a little doubtful of that, but the cave interested her, and so
did it Cap'n Bill. There was just space enough at the edge of the sheet
of water for them to crowd in behind it, but after that dangerous
entrance they found room enough to walk upright and after a time they
came to an opening in the wall of rock. Approaching this opening, they
gazed within it and found a series of steps, cut so that they might
easily descend into the cavern.

Trot turned to look inquiringly at her companions. The falling water
made such din and roaring that her voice could not be heard. Cap'n Bill
nodded his head, but before he could enter the cave, Button-Bright was
before him, clambering down the steps without a particle of fear. So
the others followed the boy.

The first steps were wet with spray, and slippery, but the remainder
were quite dry. A rosy light seemed to come from the interior of the
cave, and this lighted their way. After the steps there was a short
tunnel, high enough for them to walk erect in, and then they reached
the cave itself and paused in wonder and admiration.

They stood on the edge of a vast cavern, the walls and domed roof of
which were lined with countless rubies, exquisitely cut and flashing
sparkling rays from one to another. This caused a radiant light that
permitted the entire cavern to be distinctly seen, and the effect was
so marvelous that Trot drew in her breath with a sort of a gasp, and
stood quite still in wonder.

But the walls and roof of the cavern were merely a setting for a more
wonderful scene. In the center was a bubbling caldron of water, for
here the river rose again, splashing and dashing till its spray rose
high in the air, where it took the ruby color of the jewels and seemed
like a seething mass of flame. And while they gazed into the tumbling,
tossing water, the body of the Scarecrow suddenly rose in the center,
struggling and kicking, and the next instant wholly disappeared from
view.

"My, but he's wet!" exclaimed Button-Bright; but none of the others
heard him.

Trot and Cap'n Bill discovered that a broad ledge--covered, like the
walls, with glittering rubies--ran all around the cavern; so they
followed this gorgeous path to the rear and found where the water made
its final dive underground, before it disappeared entirely. Where it
plunged into this dim abyss the river was black and dreary looking, and
they stood gazing in awe until just beside them the body of the
Scarecrow again popped up from the water.




Chapter Twenty Three

The Land of Oz


The straw man's appearance on the water was so sudden that it startled
Trot, but Cap'n Bill had the presence of mind to stick his wooden leg
out over the water and the Scarecrow made a desperate clutch and
grabbed the leg with both hands. He managed to hold on until Trot and
Button-Bright knelt down and seized his clothing, but the children
would have been powerless to drag the soaked Scarecrow ashore had not
Cap'n Bill now assisted them. When they laid him on the ledge of rubies
he was the most useless looking Scarecrow you can imagine--his straw
sodden and dripping with water, his clothing wet and crumpled, while
even the sack upon which his face was painted had become so wrinkled
that the old jolly expression of their stuffed friend's features was
entirely gone. But he could still speak, and when Trot bent down her
ear she heard him say:

"Get me out of here as soon as you can."

That seemed a wise thing to do, so Cap'n Bill lifted his head and
shoulders, and Trot and Button-Bright each took a leg; among them they
partly carried and partly dragged the damp Scarecrow out of the Ruby
Cavern, along the tunnel, and up the flight of rock steps. It was
somewhat difficult to get him past the edge of the waterfall, but they
succeeded, after much effort, and a few minutes later laid their poor
comrade on a grassy bank where the sun shone upon him freely and he was
beyond the reach of the spray.

Cap'n Bill now knelt down and examined the straw that the Scarecrow was
stuffed with.

"I don't believe it'll be of much use to him, any more," said he, "for
it's full of polliwogs an' fish eggs, an' the water has took all the
crinkle out o' the straw an ruined it. I guess, Trot, that the best
thing for us to do is to empty out all his body an' carry his head an'
clothes along the road till we come to a field or a house where we can
get some fresh straw."

"Yes, Cap'n," she agreed, "there's nothing else to be done. But how
shall we ever find the road to Glinda's palace, without the Scarecrow
to guide us?"

"That's easy," said the Scarecrow, speaking in a rather feeble but
distinct voice. "If Cap'n Bill will carry my head on his shoulders,
eyes front, I can tell him which way to go."

So they followed that plan and emptied all the old, wet straw out of
the Scarecrow's body. Then the sailor-man wrung out the clothes and
laid them in the sun till they were quite dry. Trot took charge of the
head and pressed the wrinkles out of the face as it dried, so that
after a while the Scarecrow's expression became natural again, and as
jolly as before.

This work consumed some time, but when it was completed they again
started upon their journey, Button-Bright carrying the boots and hat,
Trot the bundle of clothes, and Cap'n Bill the head. The Scarecrow,
having regained his composure and being now in a good humor, despite
his recent mishaps, beguiled their way with stories of the Land of Oz.

It was not until the next morning, however, that they found straw with
which to restuff the Scarecrow. That evening they came to the same
little house they had slept in before, only now it was magically
transferred to a new place. The same bountiful supper as before was
found smoking hot upon the table and the same cosy beds were ready for
them to sleep in.

They rose early and after breakfast went out of doors, and there, lying
just beside the house, was a heap of clean, crisp straw. Ozma had
noticed the Scarecrow's accident in her Magic Picture and had notified
the Wizard to provide the straw, for she knew the adventurers were not
likely to find straw in the country through which they were now
traveling.

They lost no time in stuffing the Scarecrow anew, and he was greatly
delighted at being able to walk around again and to assume the
leadership of the little party.

"Really," said Trot, "I think you're better than you were before, for
you are fresh and sweet all through and rustle beautifully when you
move."

"Thank you, my dear," he replied gratefully. "I always feel like a new
man when I'm freshly stuffed. No one likes to get musty, you know, and
even good straw may be spoiled by age."

"It was water that spoiled you, the last time," remarked Button-Bright,
"which proves that too much bathing is as bad as too little. But, after
all, Scarecrow, water is not as dangerous for you as fire."

"All things are good in moderation," declared the Scarecrow. "But now,
let us hurry on, or we shall not reach Glinda's palace by nightfall."




Chapter Twenty-Four

The Royal Reception


At about four o'clock of that same day the Red Wagon drew up at the
entrance to Glinda's palace and Dorothy and Betsy jumped out. Ozma's
Red Wagon was almost a chariot, being inlaid with rubies and pearls,
and it was drawn by Ozma's favorite steed, the wooden Sawhorse.

"Shall I unharness you," asked Dorothy, "so you can come in and visit?"

"No," replied the Sawhorse. "I'll just stand here and think. Take your
time. Thinking doesn't seem to bore me at all."

"What will you think of?" inquired Betsy.

"Of the acorn that grew the tree from which I was made."

So they left the wooden animal and went in to see Glinda, who welcomed
the little girls in her most cordial manner.

"I knew you were on your way," said the good Sorceress when they were
seated in her library, "for I learned from my Record Book that you
intended to meet Trot and Button-Bright on their arrival here."

"Is the strange little girl named Trot?" asked Dorothy.

"Yes; and her companion, the old sailor, is named Cap'n Bill. I think
we shall like them very much, for they are just the kind of people to
enjoy and appreciate our fairyland and I do not see any way, at
present, for them to return again to the outside world."

"Well, there's room enough here for them, I'm sure," said Dorothy.
"Betsy and I are already eager to welcome Trot. It will keep us busy
for a year, at least, showing her all the wonderful things in Oz."

Glinda smiled.

"I have lived here many years," said she, "and I have not seen all the
wonders of Oz yet."

Meantime the travelers were drawing near to the palace, and when they
first caught sight of its towers Trot realized that it was far more
grand and imposing than was the King's castle in Jinxland. The nearer
they came, the more beautiful the palace appeared, and when finally the
Scarecrow led them up the great marble steps, even Button-Bright was
filled with awe.

"I don't see any soldiers to guard the place," said the little girl.

"There is no need to guard Glinda's palace," replied the Scarecrow. "We
have no wicked people in Oz, that we know of, and even if there were
any, Glinda's magic would be powerful enough to protect her."

Button-Bright was now standing on the top steps of the entrance, and he
suddenly exclaimed:

"Why, there's the Sawhorse and the Red Wagon! Hip, hooray!" and next
moment he was rushing down to throw his arms around the neck of the
wooden horse, which good-naturedly permitted this familiarity when it
recognized in the boy an old friend.

Button-Bright's shout had been heard inside the palace, so now Dorothy
and Betsy came running out to embrace their beloved friend, the
Scarecrow, and to welcome Trot and Cap'n Bill to the Land of Oz.

"We've been watching you for a long time, in Ozma's Magic Picture,"
said Dorothy, "and Ozma has sent us to invite you to her own palace in
the Em'rald City. I don't know if you realize how lucky you are to get
that invitation, but you'll understand it better after you've seen the
royal palace and the Em'rald City."

Glinda now appeared in person to lead all the party into her Azure
Reception Room. Trot was a little afraid of the stately Sorceress, but
gained courage by holding fast to the hands of Betsy and Dorothy. Cap'n
Bill had no one to help him feel at ease, so the old sailor sat stiffly
on the edge of his chair and said:

"Yes, ma'am," or "No, ma'am," when he was spoken to, and was greatly
embarrassed by so much splendor.

The Scarecrow had lived so much in palaces that he felt quite at home,
and he chatted to Glinda and the Oz girls in a merry, light-hearted
way. He told all about his adventures in Jinxland, and at the Great
Waterfall, and on the journey hither--most of which his hearers knew
already--and then he asked Dorothy and Betsy what had happened in the
Emerald City since he had left there.

They all passed the evening and the night at Glinda's palace, and the
Sorceress was so gracious to Cap'n Bill that the old man by degrees
regained his self-possession and began to enjoy himself. Trot had
already come to the conclusion that in Dorothy and Betsy she had found
two delightful comrades, and Button-Bright was just as much at home
here as he had been in the fields of Jinxland or when he was buried in
the popcorn snow of the Land of Mo.

The next morning they arose bright and early and after breakfast bade
good-bye to the kind Sorceress, whom Trot and Cap'n Bill thanked
earnestly for sending the Scarecrow to Jinxland to rescue them. Then
they all climbed into the Red Wagon.

There was room for all on the broad seats, and when all had taken their
places--Dorothy, Trot and Betsy on the rear seat and Cap'n Bill,
Button-Bright and the Scarecrow in front--they called "Gid-dap!" to the
Sawhorse and the wooden steed moved briskly away, pulling the Red Wagon
with ease.

It was now that the strangers began to perceive the real beauties of
the Land of Oz, for they were passing through a more thickly settled
part of the country and the population grew more dense as they drew
nearer to the Emerald City. Everyone they met had a cheery word or a
smile for the Scarecrow, Dorothy and Betsy Bobbin, and some of them
remembered Button-Bright and welcomed him back to their country.

It was a happy party, indeed, that journeyed in the Red Wagon to the
Emerald City, and Trot already began to hope that Ozma would permit her
and Cap'n Bill to live always in the Land of Oz.

When they reached the great city they were more amazed than ever, both
by the concourse of people in their quaint and picturesque costumes,
and by the splendor of the city itself. But the magnificence of the
Royal Palace quite took their breath away, until Ozma received them in
her own pretty apartment and by her charming manners and assuring
smiles made them feel they were no longer strangers.

Trot was given a lovely little room next to that of Dorothy, while
Cap'n Bill had the cosiest sort of a room next to Trot's and
overlooking the gardens. And that evening Ozma gave a grand banquet and
reception in honor of the new arrivals. While Trot had read of many of
the people she then met, Cap'n Bill was less familiar with them and
many of the unusual characters introduced to him that evening caused
the old sailor to open his eyes wide in astonishment.

He had thought the live Scarecrow about as curious as anyone could be,
but now he met the Tin Woodman, who was all made of tin, even to his
heart, and carried a gleaming axe over his shoulder wherever he went.
Then there was Jack Pumpkinhead, whose head was a real pumpkin with the
face carved upon it; and Professor Wogglebug, who had the shape of an
enormous bug but was dressed in neat fitting garments. The Professor
was an interesting talker and had very polite manners, but his face was
so comical that it made Cap'n Bill smile to look at it. A great friend
of Dorothy and Ozma seemed to be a machine man called Tik-Tok, who ran
down several times during the evening and had to be wound up again by
someone before he could move or speak.

At the reception appeared the Shaggy Man and his brother, both very
popular in Oz, as well as Dorothy's Uncle Henry and Aunt Em, two happy
old people who lived in a pretty cottage near the palace.

But what perhaps seemed most surprising to both Trot and Cap'n Bill was
the number of peculiar animals admitted into Ozma's parlors, where they
not only conducted themselves quite properly but were able to talk as
well as anyone.

There was the Cowardly Lion, an immense beast with a beautiful mane;
and the Hungry Tiger, who smiled continually; and Eureka the Pink
Kitten, who lay curled upon a cushion and had rather supercilious
manners; and the wooden Sawhorse; and nine tiny piglets that belonged
to the Wizard; and a mule named Hank, who belonged to Betsy Bobbin. A
fuzzy little terrier dog, named Toto, lay at Dorothy's feet but seldom
took part in the conversation, although he listened to every word that
was said. But the most wonderful of all to Trot was a square beast with
a winning smile, that squatted in a corner of the room and wagged his
square head at everyone in quite a jolly way. Betsy told Trot that this
unique beast was called the Woozy, and there was no other like him in
all the world.

Cap'n Bill and Trot had both looked around expectantly for the Wizard
of Oz, but the evening was far advanced before the famous little man
entered the room. But he went up to the strangers at once and said:

"I know you, but you don't know me; so let's get acquainted."

And they did get acquainted, in a very short time, and before the
evening was over Trot felt that she knew every person and animal
present at the reception, and that they were all her good friends.

Suddenly they looked around for Button-Bright, but he was nowhere to be
found.

"Dear me!" cried Trot. "He's lost again."

"Never mind, my dear," said Ozma, with her charming smile, "no one can
go far astray in the Land of Oz, and if Button-Bright isn't lost
occasionally, he isn't happy."





Chapter One

Ann's Army


"I won't!" cried Ann; "I won't sweep the floor. It is beneath my
dignity."

"Some one must sweep it," replied Ann's younger sister, Salye; "else we
shall soon be wading in dust. And you are the eldest, and the head of
the family."

"I'm Queen of Oogaboo," said Ann, proudly. "But," she added with a
sigh, "my kingdom is the smallest and the poorest in all the Land of
Oz."

This was quite true. Away up in the mountains, in a far corner of the
beautiful fairyland of Oz, lies a small valley which is named Oogaboo,
and in this valley lived a few people who were usually happy and
contented and never cared to wander over the mountain pass into the
more settled parts of the land. They knew that all of Oz, including
their own territory, was ruled by a beautiful Princess named Ozma, who
lived in the splendid Emerald City; yet the simple folk of Oogaboo
never visited Ozma. They had a royal family of their own--not
especially to rule over them, but just as a matter of pride. Ozma
permitted the various parts of her country to have their Kings and
Queens and Emperors and the like, but all were ruled over by the lovely
girl Queen of the Emerald City.

The King of Oogaboo used to be a man named Jol Jemkiph Soforth, who for
many years did all the drudgery of deciding disputes and telling his
people when to plant cabbages and pickle onions. But the King's wife
had a sharp tongue and small respect for the King, her husband;
therefore one night King Jol crept over the pass into the Land of Oz
and disappeared from Oogaboo for good and all. The Queen waited a few
years for him to return and then started in search of him, leaving her
eldest daughter, Ann Soforth, to act as Queen.

Now, Ann had not forgotten when her birthday came, for that meant a
party and feasting and dancing, but she had quite forgotten how many
years the birthdays marked. In a land where people live always, this is
not considered a cause for regret, so we may justly say that Queen Ann
of Oogaboo was old enough to make jelly--and let it go at that.

But she didn't make jelly, or do any more of the housework than she
could help. She was an ambitious woman and constantly resented the fact
that her kingdom was so tiny and her people so stupid and
unenterprising. Often she wondered what had become of her father and
mother, out beyond the pass, in the wonderful Land of Oz, and the fact
that they did not return to Oogaboo led Ann to suspect that they had
found a better place to live. So, when Salye refused to sweep the floor
of the living room in the palace, and Ann would not sweep it, either,
she said to her sister:

"I'm going away. This absurd Kingdom of Oogaboo tires me."

"Go, if you want to," answered Salye; "but you are very foolish to
leave this place."

"Why?" asked Ann.

"Because in the Land of Oz, which is Ozma's country, you will be a
nobody, while here you are a Queen."

"Oh, yes! Queen over eighteen men, twenty-seven women and forty-four
children!" returned Ann bitterly.

"Well, there are certainly more people than that in the great Land of
Oz," laughed Salye. "Why don't you raise an army and conquer them, and
be Queen of all Oz?" she asked, trying to taunt Ann and so to anger
her. Then she made a face at her sister and went into the back yard to
swing in the hammock.

Her jeering words, however, had given Queen Ann an idea. She reflected
that Oz was reported to be a peaceful country and Ozma a mere girl who
ruled with gentleness to all and was obeyed because her people loved
her. Even in Oogaboo the story was told that Ozma's sole army consisted
of twenty-seven fine officers, who wore beautiful uniforms but carried
no weapons, because there was no one to fight. Once there had been a
private soldier, besides the officers, but Ozma had made him a
Captain-General and taken away his gun for fear it might accidentally
hurt some one.

The more Ann thought about the matter the more she was convinced it
would be easy to conquer the Land of Oz and set herself up as Ruler in
Ozma's place, if she but had an Army to do it with. Afterward she could
go out into the world and conquer other lands, and then perhaps she
could find a way to the moon, and conquer that. She had a warlike
spirit that preferred trouble to idleness.

It all depended on an Army, Ann decided. She carefully counted in her
mind all the men of her kingdom. Yes; there were exactly eighteen of
them, all told. That would not make a very big Army, but by surprising
Ozma's unarmed officers her men might easily subdue them. "Gentle
people are always afraid of those that bluster," Ann told herself. "I
don't wish to shed any blood, for that would shock my nerves and I
might faint; but if we threaten and flash our weapons I am sure the
people of Oz will fall upon their knees before me and surrender."

This argument, which she repeated to herself more than once, finally
determined the Queen of Oogaboo to undertake the audacious venture.

"Whatever happens," she reflected, "can make me no more unhappy than my
staying shut up in this miserable valley and sweeping floors and
quarreling with Sister Salye; so I will venture all, and win what I
may."

That very day she started out to organize her Army.

The first man she came to was Jo Apple, so called because he had an
apple orchard.

"Jo," said Ann, "I am going to conquer the world, and I want you to
join my Army."

"Don't ask me to do such a fool thing, for I must politely refuse Your
Majesty," said Jo Apple.

"I have no intention of asking you. I shall command you, as Queen of
Oogaboo, to join," said Ann.

"In that case, I suppose I must obey," the man remarked, in a sad
voice. "But I pray you to consider that I am a very important citizen,
and for that reason am entitled to an office of high rank."

"You shall be a General," promised Ann.

"With gold epaulets and a sword?" he asked.

"Of course," said the Queen.

Then she went to the next man, whose name was Jo Bunn, as he owned an
orchard where graham-buns and wheat-buns, in great variety, both hot
and cold, grew on the trees.

"Jo," said Ann, "I am going to conquer the world, and I command you to
join my Army."

"Impossible!" he exclaimed. "The bun crop has to be picked."

"Let your wife and children do the picking," said Ann.

"But I'm a man of great importance, Your Majesty," he protested.

"For that reason you shall be one of my Generals, and wear a cocked hat
with gold braid, and curl your mustaches and clank a long sword," she
promised.

So he consented, although sorely against his will, and the Queen walked
on to the next cottage. Here lived Jo Cone, so called because the trees
in his orchard bore crops of excellent ice-cream cones.

"Jo," said Ann, "I am going to conquer the world, and you must join my
Army."

"Excuse me, please," said Jo Cone. "I am a bad fighter. My good wife
conquered me years ago, for she can fight better than I. Take her, Your
Majesty, instead of me, and I'll bless you for the favor."

"This must be an army of men--fierce, ferocious warriors," declared
Ann, looking sternly upon the mild little man.

"And you will leave my wife here in Oogaboo?" he asked.

"Yes; and make you a General."

"I'll go," said Jo Cone, and Ann went on to the cottage of Jo Clock,
who had an orchard of clock-trees. This man at first insisted that he
would not join the army, but Queen Ann's promise to make him a General
finally won his consent.

"How many Generals are there in your army?" he asked.

"Four, so far," replied Ann.

"And how big will the army be?" was his next question.

"I intend to make every one of the eighteen men in Oogaboo join it,"
she said.

"Then four Generals are enough," announced Jo Clock. "I advise you to
make the rest of them Colonels."

Ann tried to follow his advice. The next four men she visited--who were
Jo Plum, Jo Egg, Jo Banjo and Jo Cheese, named after the trees in their
orchards--she made Colonels of her Army; but the fifth one, Jo Nails,
said Colonels and Generals were getting to be altogether too common in
the Army of Oogaboo and he preferred to be a Major. So Jo Nails, Jo
Cake, Jo Ham and Jo Stockings were all four made Majors, while the next
four--Jo Sandwich, Jo Padlocks, Jo Sundae and Jo Buttons--were
appointed Captains of the Army.

But now Queen Ann was in a quandary. There remained but two other men
in all Oogaboo, and if she made these two Lieutenants, while there were
four Captains, four Majors, four Colonels and four Generals, there was
likely to be jealousy in her army, and perhaps mutiny and desertions.

One of these men, however, was Jo Candy, and he would not go at all. No
promises could tempt him, nor could threats move him. He said he must
remain at home to harvest his crop of jackson-balls, lemon-drops,
bonbons and chocolate-creams. Also he had large fields of crackerjack
and buttered pop corn to be mowed and threshed, and he was determined
not to disappoint the children of Oogaboo by going away to conquer the
world and so let the candy crop spoil.

Finding Jo Candy so obstinate, Queen Ann let him have his own way and
continued her journey to the house of the eighteenth and last man in
Oogaboo, who was a young fellow named Jo Files. This Files had twelve
trees which bore steel files of various sorts; but also he had nine
book-trees, on which grew a choice selection of story-books. In case
you have never seen books growing upon trees, I will explain that those
in Jo Files' orchard were enclosed in broad green husks which, when
fully ripe, turned to a deep red color. Then the books were picked and
husked and were ready to read. If they were picked too soon, the
stories were found to be confused and uninteresting and the spelling
bad. However, if allowed to ripen perfectly, the stories were fine
reading and the spelling and grammar excellent.

Files freely gave his books to all who wanted them, but the people of
Oogaboo cared little for books and so he had to read most of them
himself, before they spoiled. For, as you probably know, as soon as the
books were read the words disappeared and the leaves withered and
faded--which is the worst fault of all books which grow upon trees.

When Queen Ann spoke to this young man Files, who was both intelligent
and ambitious, he said he thought it would be great fun to conquer the
world. But he called her attention to the fact that he was far superior
to the other men of her army. Therefore, he would not be one of her
Generals or Colonels or Majors or Captains, but claimed the honor of
being sole Private.

Ann did not like this idea at all.

"I hate to have a Private Soldier in my army," she said; "they're so
common. I am told that Princess Ozma once had a private soldier, but
she made him her Captain-General, which is good evidence that the
private was unnecessary."

"Ozma's army doesn't fight," returned Files; "but your army must fight
like fury in order to conquer the world. I have read in my books that
it is always the private soldiers who do the fighting, for no officer
is ever brave enough to face the foe. Also, it stands to reason that
your officers must have some one to command and to issue their orders
to; therefore I'll be the one. I long to slash and slay the enemy and
become a hero. Then, when we return to Oogaboo, I'll take all the
marbles away from the children and melt them up and make a marble
statue of myself for all to look upon and admire."

Ann was much pleased with Private Files. He seemed indeed to be such a
warrior as she needed in her enterprise, and her hopes of success took
a sudden bound when Files told her he knew where a gun-tree grew and
would go there at once and pick the ripest and biggest musket the tree
bore.




Chapter Two

Out of Oogaboo


Three days later the Grand Army of Oogaboo assembled in the square in
front of the royal palace. The sixteen officers were attired in
gorgeous uniforms and carried sharp, glittering swords. The Private had
picked his gun and, although it was not a very big weapon, Files tried
to look fierce and succeeded so well that all his commanding officers
were secretly afraid of him.

The women were there, protesting that Queen Ann Soforth had no right to
take their husbands and fathers from them; but Ann commanded them to
keep silent, and that was the hardest order to obey they had ever
received.

The Queen appeared before her Army dressed in an imposing uniform of
green, covered with gold braid. She wore a green soldier-cap with a
purple plume in it and looked so royal and dignified that everyone in
Oogaboo except the Army was glad she was going. The Army was sorry she
was not going alone.

"Form ranks!" she cried in her shrill voice.

Salye leaned out of the palace window and laughed.

"I believe your Army can run better than it can fight," she observed.

"Of course," replied General Bunn, proudly. "We're not looking for
trouble, you know, but for plunder. The more plunder and the less
fighting we get, the better we shall like our work."

"For my part," said Files, "I prefer war and carnage to anything. The
only way to become a hero is to conquer, and the story-books all say
that the easiest way to conquer is to fight."

"That's the idea, my brave man!" agreed Ann. "To fight is to conquer
and to conquer is to secure plunder and to secure plunder is to become
a hero. With such noble determination to back me, the world is mine!
Good-bye, Salye. When we return we shall be rich and famous. Come,
Generals; let us march."

At this the Generals straightened up and threw out their chests. Then
they swung their glittering swords in rapid circles and cried to the
Colonels:

"For-ward March!"

Then the Colonels shouted to the Majors: "For-ward March!" and the
Majors yelled to the Captains: "For-ward March!" and the Captains
screamed to the Private:

"For-ward March!"

So Files shouldered his gun and began to march, and all the officers
followed after him. Queen Ann came last of all, rejoicing in her noble
army and wondering why she had not decided long ago to conquer the
world.

In this order the procession marched out of Oogaboo and took the narrow
mountain pass which led into the lovely Fairyland of Oz.




Chapter Three

Magic Mystifies the Marchers


Princess Ozma was all unaware that the Army of Oogaboo, led by their
ambitious Queen, was determined to conquer her Kingdom. The beautiful
girl Ruler of Oz was busy with the welfare of her subjects and had no
time to think of Ann Soforth and her disloyal plans. But there was one
who constantly guarded the peace and happiness of the Land of Oz and
this was the Official Sorceress of the Kingdom, Glinda the Good.

In her magnificent castle, which stands far north of the Emerald City
where Ozma holds her court, Glinda owns a wonderful magic Record Book,
in which is printed every event that takes place anywhere, just as soon
as it happens.

The smallest things and the biggest things are all recorded in this
book. If a child stamps its foot in anger, Glinda reads about it; if a
city burns down, Glinda finds the fact noted in her book.

The Sorceress always reads her Record Book every day, and so it was she
knew that Ann Soforth, Queen of Oogaboo, had foolishly assembled an
army of sixteen officers and one private soldier, with which she
intended to invade and conquer the Land of Oz.

There was no danger but that Ozma, supported by the magic arts of
Glinda the Good and the powerful Wizard of Oz--both her firm
friends--could easily defeat a far more imposing army than Ann's; but
it would be a shame to have the peace of Oz interrupted by any sort of
quarreling or fighting. So Glinda did not even mention the matter to
Ozma, or to anyone else. She merely went into a great chamber of her
castle, known as the Magic Room, where she performed a magical ceremony
which caused the mountain pass that led from Oogaboo to make several
turns and twists. The result was that when Ann and her army came to the
end of the pass they were not in the Land of Oz at all, but in an
adjoining territory that was quite distinct from Ozma's domain and
separated from Oz by an invisible barrier.

As the Oogaboo people emerged into this country, the pass they had
traversed disappeared behind them and it was not likely they would ever
find their way back into the valley of Oogaboo. They were greatly
puzzled, indeed, by their surroundings and did not know which way to
go. None of them had ever visited Oz, so it took them some time to
discover they were not in Oz at all, but in an unknown country.

"Never mind," said Ann, trying to conceal her disappointment; "we have
started out to conquer the world, and here is part of it. In time, as
we pursue our victorious journey, we will doubtless come to Oz; but,
until we get there, we may as well conquer whatever land we find
ourselves in."

"Have we conquered this place, Your Majesty?" anxiously inquired Major
Cake.

"Most certainly," said Ann. "We have met no people, as yet, but when we
do, we will inform them that they are our slaves."

"And afterward we will plunder them of all their possessions," added
General Apple.

"They may not possess anything," objected Private Files; "but I hope
they will fight us, just the same. A peaceful conquest wouldn't be any
fun at all."

"Don't worry," said the Queen. "We can fight, whether our foes do or
not; and perhaps we would find it more comfortable to have the enemy
surrender promptly."

It was a barren country and not very pleasant to travel in. Moreover,
there was little for them to eat, and as the officers became hungry
they became fretful. Many would have deserted had they been able to
find their way home, but as the Oogaboo people were now hopelessly lost
in a strange country they considered it more safe to keep together than
to separate.

Queen Ann's temper, never very agreeable, became sharp and irritable as
she and her army tramped over the rocky roads without encountering
either people or plunder. She scolded her officers until they became
surly, and a few of them were disloyal enough to ask her to hold her
tongue. Others began to reproach her for leading them into difficulties
and in the space of three unhappy days every man was mourning for his
orchard in the pretty valley of Oogaboo.

Files, however, proved a different sort. The more difficulties he
encountered the more cheerful he became, and the sighs of the officers
were answered by the merry whistle of the Private. His pleasant
disposition did much to encourage Queen Ann and before long she
consulted the Private Soldier more often than she did his superiors.

It was on the third day of their pilgrimage that they encountered their
first adventure. Toward evening the sky was suddenly darkened and Major
Nails exclaimed:

"A fog is coming toward us."

"I do not think it is a fog," replied Files, looking with interest at
the approaching cloud. "It seems to me more like the breath of a Rak."

"What is a Rak?" asked Ann, looking about fearfully.

"A terrible beast with a horrible appetite," answered the soldier,
growing a little paler than usual. "I have never seen a Rak, to be
sure, but I have read of them in the story-books that grew in my
orchard, and if this is indeed one of those fearful monsters, we are
not likely to conquer the world."

Hearing this, the officers became quite worried and gathered closer
about their soldier.

"What is the thing like?" asked one.

"The only picture of a Rak that I ever saw in a book was rather
blurred," said Files, "because the book was not quite ripe when it was
picked. But the creature can fly in the air and run like a deer and
swim like a fish. Inside its body is a glowing furnace of fire, and the
Rak breathes in air and breathes out smoke, which darkens the sky for
miles around, wherever it goes. It is bigger than a hundred men and
feeds on any living thing."

The officers now began to groan and to tremble, but Files tried to
cheer them, saying:

"It may not be a Rak, after all, that we see approaching us, and you
must not forget that we people of Oogaboo, which is part of the
fairyland of Oz, cannot be killed."

"Nevertheless," said Captain Buttons, "if the Rak catches us, and chews
us up into small pieces, and swallows us--what will happen then?"

"Then each small piece will still be alive," declared Files.

"I cannot see how that would help us," wailed Colonel Banjo. "A
hamburger steak is a hamburger steak, whether it is alive or not!"

"I tell you, this may not be a Rak," persisted Files. "We will know,
when the cloud gets nearer, whether it is the breath of a Rak or not.
If it has no smell at all, it is probably a fog; but if it has an odor
of salt and pepper, it is a Rak and we must prepare for a desperate
fight."

They all eyed the dark cloud fearfully. Before long it reached the
frightened group and began to envelop them. Every nose sniffed the
cloud--and every one detected in it the odor of salt and pepper.

"The Rak!" shouted Private Files, and with a howl of despair the
sixteen officers fell to the ground, writhing and moaning in anguish.
Queen Ann sat down upon a rock and faced the cloud more bravely,
although her heart was beating fast. As for Files, he calmly loaded his
gun and stood ready to fight the foe, as a soldier should.

They were now in absolute darkness, for the cloud which covered the sky
and the setting sun was black as ink. Then through the gloom appeared
two round, glowing balls of red, and Files at once decided these must
be the monster's eyes.

He raised his gun, took aim and fired.

There were several bullets in the gun, all gathered from an excellent
bullet-tree in Oogaboo, and they were big and hard. They flew toward
the monster and struck it, and with a wild, weird cry the Rak came
fluttering down and its huge body fell plump upon the forms of the
sixteen officers, who thereupon screamed louder than before.

"Badness me!" moaned the Rak. "See what you've done with that dangerous
gun of yours!"

"I can't see," replied Files, "for the cloud formed by your breath
darkens my sight!"

"Don't tell me it was an accident," continued the Rak, reproachfully,
as it still flapped its wings in a helpless manner. "Don't claim you
didn't know the gun was loaded, I beg of you!"

"I don't intend to," replied Files. "Did the bullets hurt you very
badly?"

"One has broken my jaw, so that I can't open my mouth. You will notice
that my voice sounds rather harsh and husky, because I have to talk
with my teeth set close together. Another bullet broke my left wing, so
that I can't fly; and still another broke my right leg, so that I can't
walk. It was the most careless shot I ever heard of!"

"Can't you manage to lift your body off from my commanding officers?"
inquired Files. "From their cries I'm afraid your great weight is
crushing them."

"I hope it is," growled the Rak. "I want to crush them, if possible,
for I have a bad disposition. If only I could open my mouth, I'd eat
all of you, although my appetite is poorly this warm weather."

With this the Rak began to roll its immense body sidewise, so as to
crush the officers more easily; but in doing this it rolled completely
off from them and the entire sixteen scrambled to their feet and made
off as fast as they could run.

Private Files could not see them go but he knew from the sound of their
voices that they had escaped, so he ceased to worry about them.

"Pardon me if I now bid you good-bye," he said to the Rak. "The parting
is caused by our desire to continue our journey. If you die, do not
blame me, for I was obliged to shoot you as a matter of
self-protection."

"I shall not die," answered the monster, "for I bear a charmed life.
But I beg you not to leave me!"

"Why not?" asked Files.

"Because my broken jaw will heal in about an hour, and then I shall be
able to eat you. My wing will heal in a day and my leg will heal in a
week, when I shall be as well as ever. Having shot me, and so caused me
all this annoyance, it is only fair and just that you remain here and
allow me to eat you as soon as I can open my jaws."

"I beg to differ with you," returned the soldier firmly. "I have made
an engagement with Queen Ann of Oogaboo to help her conquer the world,
and I cannot break my word for the sake of being eaten by a Rak."

"Oh; that's different," said the monster. "If you've an engagement,
don't let me detain you."

So Files felt around in the dark and grasped the hand of the trembling
Queen, whom he led away from the flapping, sighing Rak. They stumbled
over the stones for a way but presently began to see dimly the path
ahead of them, as they got farther and farther away from the dreadful
spot where the wounded monster lay. By and by they reached a little
hill and could see the last rays of the sun flooding a pretty valley
beyond, for now they had passed beyond the cloudy breath of the Rak.
Here were huddled the sixteen officers, still frightened and panting
from their run. They had halted only because it was impossible for them
to run any farther.

Queen Ann gave them a severe scolding for their cowardice, at the same
time praising Files for his courage.

"We are wiser than he, however," muttered General Clock, "for by
running away we are now able to assist Your Majesty in conquering the
world; whereas, had Files been eaten by the Rak, he would have deserted
your Army."

After a brief rest they descended into the valley, and as soon as they
were out of sight of the Rak the spirits of the entire party rose
quickly. Just at dusk they came to a brook, on the banks of which Queen
Ann commanded them to make camp for the night.

Each officer carried in his pocket a tiny white tent. This, when placed
upon the ground, quickly grew in size until it was large enough to
permit the owner to enter it and sleep within its canvas walls. Files
was obliged to carry a knapsack, in which was not only his own tent but
an elaborate pavilion for Queen Ann, besides a bed and chair and a
magic table. This table, when set upon the ground in Ann's pavilion,
became of large size, and in a drawer of the table was contained the
Queen's supply of extra clothing, her manicure and toilet articles and
other necessary things. The royal bed was the only one in the camp, the
officers and private sleeping in hammocks attached to their tent poles.

There was also in the knapsack a flag bearing the royal emblem of
Oogaboo, and this flag Files flew upon its staff every night, to show
that the country they were in had been conquered by the Queen of
Oogaboo. So far, no one but themselves had seen the flag, but Ann was
pleased to see it flutter in the breeze and considered herself already
a famous conqueror.




Chapter Four

Betsy Braves the Billows


The waves dashed and the lightning flashed and the thunder rolled and
the ship struck a rock. Betsy Bobbin was running across the deck and
the shock sent her flying through the air until she fell with a splash
into the dark blue water. The same shock caught Hank, a thin little,
sad-faced mule, and tumbled him also into the sea, far from the ship's
side.

When Betsy came up, gasping for breath because the wet plunge had
surprised her, she reached out in the dark and grabbed a bunch of hair.
At first she thought it was the end of a rope, but presently she heard
a dismal "Hee-haw!" and knew she was holding fast to the end of Hank's
tail.

Suddenly the sea was lighted up by a vivid glare. The ship, now in the
far distance, caught fire, blew up and sank beneath the waves.

Betsy shuddered at the sight, but just then her eye caught a mass of
wreckage floating near her and she let go the mule's tail and seized
the rude raft, pulling herself up so that she rode upon it in safety.
Hank also saw the raft and swam to it, but he was so clumsy he never
would have been able to climb upon it had not Betsy helped him to get
aboard.

They had to crowd close together, for their support was only a
hatch-cover torn from the ship's deck; but it floated them fairly well
and both the girl and the mule knew it would keep them from drowning.

The storm was not over, by any means, when the ship went down. Blinding
bolts of lightning shot from cloud to cloud and the clamor of deep
thunderclaps echoed far over the sea. The waves tossed the little raft
here and there as a child tosses a rubber ball and Betsy had a solemn
feeling that for hundreds of watery miles in every direction there was
no living thing besides herself and the small donkey.

Perhaps Hank had the same thought, for he gently rubbed his nose
against the frightened girl and said "Hee-haw!" in his softest voice,
as if to comfort her.

"You'll protect me, Hank dear, won't you?" she cried helplessly, and
the mule said "Hee-haw!" again, in tones that meant a promise.

On board the ship, during the days that preceded the wreck, when the
sea was calm, Betsy and Hank had become good friends; so, while the
girl might have preferred a more powerful protector in this dreadful
emergency, she felt that the mule would do all in a mule's power to
guard her safety.

All night they floated, and when the storm had worn itself out and
passed away with a few distant growls, and the waves had grown smaller
and easier to ride, Betsy stretched herself out on the wet raft and
fell asleep.

Hank did not sleep a wink. Perhaps he felt it his duty to guard Betsy.
Anyhow, he crouched on the raft beside the tired sleeping girl and
watched patiently until the first light of dawn swept over the sea.

The light wakened Betsy Bobbin. She sat up, rubbed her eyes and stared
across the water.

"Oh, Hank; there's land ahead!" she exclaimed.

"Hee-haw!" answered Hank in his plaintive voice.

The raft was floating swiftly toward a very beautiful country and as
they drew near Betsy could see banks of lovely flowers showing brightly
between leafy trees. But no people were to be seen at all.




Chapter Five

The Roses Repulse the Refugees


Gently the raft grated on the sandy beach. Then Betsy easily waded
ashore, the mule following closely behind her. The sun was now shining
and the air was warm and laden with the fragrance of roses.

"I'd like some breakfast, Hank," remarked the girl, feeling more
cheerful now that she was on dry land; "but we can't eat the flowers,
although they do smell mighty good."

"Hee-haw!" replied Hank and trotted up a little pathway to the top of
the bank.

Betsy followed and from the eminence looked around her. A little way
off stood a splendid big greenhouse, its thousands of crystal panes
glittering in the sunlight.

"There ought to be people somewhere 'round," observed Betsy
thoughtfully; "gardeners, or somebody. Let's go and see, Hank. I'm
getting hungrier ev'ry minute."

So they walked toward the great greenhouse and came to its entrance
without meeting with anyone at all. A door stood ajar, so Hank went in
first, thinking if there was any danger he could back out and warn his
companion. But Betsy was close at his heels and the moment she entered
was lost in amazement at the wonderful sight she saw.

The greenhouse was filled with magnificent rosebushes, all growing in
big pots. On the central stem of each bush bloomed a splendid Rose,
gorgeously colored and deliciously fragrant, and in the center of each
Rose was the face of a lovely girl.

As Betsy and Hank entered, the heads of the Roses were drooping and
their eyelids were closed in slumber; but the mule was so amazed that
he uttered a loud "Hee-haw!" and at the sound of his harsh voice the
rose leaves fluttered, the Roses raised their heads and a hundred
startled eyes were instantly fixed upon the intruders.

"I--I beg your pardon!" stammered Betsy, blushing and confused.

"O-o-o-h!" cried the Roses, in a sort of sighing chorus; and one of
them added: "What a horrid noise!"

"Why, that was only Hank," said Betsy, and as if to prove the truth of
her words the mule uttered another loud "Hee-haw!"

At this all the Roses turned on their stems as far as they were able
and trembled as if some one were shaking their bushes. A dainty Moss
Rose gasped: "Dear me! How dreadfully dreadful!"

"It isn't dreadful at all," said Betsy, somewhat indignant. "When you
get used to Hank's voice it will put you to sleep."

The Roses now looked at the mule less fearfully and one of them asked:

"Is that savage beast named Hank?"

"Yes; Hank's my comrade, faithful and true," answered the girl, twining
her arms around the little mule's neck and hugging him tight. "Aren't
you, Hank?"

Hank could only say in reply: "Hee-haw!" and at his bray the Roses
shivered again.

"Please go away!" begged one. "Can't you see you're frightening us out
of a week's growth?"

"Go away!" echoed Betsy. "Why, we've no place to go. We've just been
wrecked."

"Wrecked?" asked the Roses in a surprised chorus.

"Yes; we were on a big ship and the storm came and wrecked it,"
explained the girl. "But Hank and I caught hold of a raft and floated
ashore to this place, and--we're tired and hungry. What country is
this, please?"

"This is the Rose Kingdom," replied the Moss Rose, haughtily, "and it
is devoted to the culture of the rarest and fairest Roses grown."

"I believe it," said Betsy, admiring the pretty blossoms.

"But only Roses are allowed here," continued a delicate Tea Rose,
bending her brows in a frown; "therefore you must go away before the
Royal Gardener finds you and casts you back into the sea."

"Oh! Is there a Royal Gardener, then?" inquired Betsy.

"To be sure."

"And is he a Rose, also?"

"Of course not; he's a man--a wonderful man," was the reply.

"Well, I'm not afraid of a man," declared the girl, much relieved, and
even as she spoke the Royal Gardener popped into the greenhouse--a
spading fork in one hand and a watering pot in the other.

He was a funny little man, dressed in a rose-colored costume, with
ribbons at his knees and elbows, and a bunch of ribbons in his hair.
His eyes were small and twinkling, his nose sharp and his face puckered
and deeply lined.

"O-ho!" he exclaimed, astonished to find strangers in his greenhouse,
and when Hank gave a loud bray the Gardener threw the watering pot over
the mule's head and danced around with his fork, in such agitation that
presently he fell over the handle of the implement and sprawled at full
length upon the ground.

Betsy laughed and pulled the watering pot off from Hank's head. The
little mule was angry at the treatment he had received and backed
toward the Gardener threateningly.

"Look out for his heels!" called Betsy warningly and the Gardener
scrambled to his feet and hastily hid behind the Roses.

"You are breaking the Law!" he shouted, sticking out his head to glare
at the girl and the mule.

"What Law?" asked Betsy.

"The Law of the Rose Kingdom. No strangers are allowed in these
domains."

"Not when they're shipwrecked?" she inquired.

"The Law doesn't except shipwrecks," replied the Royal Gardener, and he
was about to say more when suddenly there was a crash of glass and a
man came tumbling through the roof of the greenhouse and fell plump to
the ground.




Chapter Six

Shaggy Seeks his Stray Brother


This sudden arrival was a queer looking man, dressed all in garments so
shaggy that Betsy at first thought he must be some animal. But the
stranger ended his fall in a sitting position and then the girl saw it
was really a man. He held an apple in his hand, which he had evidently
been eating when he fell, and so little was he jarred or flustered by
the accident that he continued to munch this apple as he calmly looked
around him.

"Good gracious!" exclaimed Betsy, approaching him. "Who are you, and
where did you come from?"

"Me? Oh, I'm Shaggy Man," said he, taking another bite of the apple.
"Just dropped in for a short call. Excuse my seeming haste."

"Why, I s'pose you couldn't help the haste," said Betsy.

"No. I climbed an apple tree, outside; branch gave way and--here I am."

As he spoke the Shaggy Man finished his apple, gave the core to
Hank--who ate it greedily--and then stood up to bow politely to Betsy
and the Roses.

The Royal Gardener had been frightened nearly into fits by the crash of
glass and the fall of the shaggy stranger into the bower of Roses, but
now he peeped out from behind a bush and cried in his squeaky voice:

"You're breaking the Law! You're breaking the Law!"

Shaggy stared at him solemnly.

"Is the glass the Law in this country?" he asked.

"Breaking the glass is breaking the Law," squeaked the Gardener,
angrily. "Also, to intrude in any part of the Rose Kingdom is breaking
the Law."

"How do you know?" asked Shaggy.

"Why, it's printed in a book," said the Gardener, coming forward and
taking a small book from his pocket. "Page thirteen. Here it is: 'If
any stranger enters the Rose Kingdom he shall at once be condemned by
the Ruler and put to death.' So you see, strangers," he continued
triumphantly, "it's death for you all and your time has come!"

But just here Hank interposed. He had been stealthily backing toward
the Royal Gardener, whom he disliked, and now the mule's heels shot out
and struck the little man in the middle. He doubled up like the letter
"U" and flew out of the door so swiftly--never touching the
ground--that he was gone before Betsy had time to wink.

But the mule's attack frightened the girl.

"Come," she whispered, approaching the Shaggy Man and taking his hand;
"let's go somewhere else. They'll surely kill us if we stay here!"

"Don't worry, my dear," replied Shaggy, patting the child's head. "I'm
not afraid of anything, so long as I have the Love Magnet."

"The Love Magnet! Why, what is that?" asked Betsy.

"It's a charming little enchantment that wins the heart of everyone who
looks upon it," was the reply. "The Love Magnet used to hang over the
gateway to the Emerald City, in the Land of Oz; but when I started on
this journey our beloved Ruler, Ozma of Oz, allowed me to take it with
me."

"Oh!" cried Betsy, staring hard at him; "are you really from the
wonderful Land of Oz?"

"Yes. Ever been there, my dear?"

"No; but I've heard about it. And do you know Princess Ozma?"

"Very well indeed."

"And--and Princess Dorothy?"

"Dorothy's an old chum of mine," declared Shaggy.

"Dear me!" exclaimed Betsy. "And why did you ever leave such a
beautiful land as Oz?"

"On an errand," said Shaggy, looking sad and solemn. "I'm trying to
find my dear little brother."

"Oh! Is he lost?" questioned Betsy, feeling very sorry for the poor man.

"Been lost these ten years," replied Shaggy, taking out a handkerchief
and wiping a tear from his eye. "I didn't know it until lately, when I
saw it recorded in the magic Record Book of the Sorceress Glinda, in
the Land of Oz. So now I'm trying to find him."

"Where was he lost?" asked the girl sympathetically.

"Back in Colorado, where I used to live before I went to Oz. Brother
was a miner, and dug gold out of a mine. One day he went into his mine
and never came out. They searched for him, but he was not there.
Disappeared entirely," Shaggy ended miserably.

"For goodness sake! What do you s'pose became of him?" she asked.

"There is only one explanation," replied Shaggy, taking another apple
from his pocket and eating it to relieve his misery. "The Nome King
probably got him."

"The Nome King! Who is he?"

"Why, he's sometimes called the Metal Monarch, and his name is Ruggedo.
Lives in some underground cavern. Claims to own all the metals hidden
in the earth. Don't ask me why."

"Why?"

"Cause I don't know. But this Ruggedo gets wild with anger if anyone
digs gold out of the earth, and my private opinion is that he captured
brother and carried him off to his underground kingdom. No--don't ask
me why. I see you're dying to ask me why. But I don't know."

"But--dear me!--in that case you will never find your lost brother!"
exclaimed the girl.

"Maybe not; but it's my duty to try," answered Shaggy. "I've wandered
so far without finding him, but that only proves he is not where I've
been looking. What I seek now is the hidden passage to the underground
cavern of the terrible Metal Monarch."

"Well," said Betsy doubtfully, "it strikes me that if you ever manage
to get there the Metal Monarch will make you, too, his prisoner."

"Nonsense!" answered Shaggy, carelessly. "You mustn't forget the Love
Magnet."

"What about it?" she asked.

"When the fierce Metal Monarch sees the Love Magnet, he will love me
dearly and do anything I ask."

"It must be wonderful," said Betsy, with awe.

"It is," the man assured her. "Shall I show it to you?"

"Oh, do!" she cried; so Shaggy searched in his shaggy pocket and drew
out a small silver magnet, shaped like a horseshoe.

The moment Betsy saw it she began to like the Shaggy Man better than
before. Hank also saw the Magnet and crept up to Shaggy to rub his head
lovingly against the man's knee.

But they were interrupted by the Royal Gardener, who stuck his head
into the greenhouse and shouted angrily:

"You are all condemned to death! Your only chance to escape is to leave
here instantly."

This startled little Betsy, but the Shaggy Man merely waved the Magnet
toward the Gardener, who, seeing it, rushed forward and threw himself
at Shaggy's feet, murmuring in honeyed words:

"Oh, you lovely, lovely man! How fond I am of you! Every shag and
bobtail that decorates you is dear to me--all I have is yours! But for
goodness' sake get out of here before you die the death."

"I'm not going to die," declared Shaggy Man.

"You must. It's the Law," exclaimed the Gardener, beginning to weep
real tears. "It breaks my heart to tell you this bad news, but the Law
says that all strangers must be condemned by the Ruler to die the
death."

"No Ruler has condemned us yet," said Betsy.

"Of course not," added Shaggy. "We haven't even seen the Ruler of the
Rose Kingdom."

"Well, to tell the truth," said the Gardener, in a perplexed tone of
voice, "we haven't any real Ruler, just now. You see, all our Rulers
grow on bushes in the Royal Gardens, and the last one we had got
mildewed and withered before his time. So we had to plant him, and at
this time there is no one growing on the Royal Bushes who is ripe
enough to pick."

"How do you know?" asked Betsy.

"Why, I'm the Royal Gardener. Plenty of royalties are growing, I admit;
but just now they are all green. Until one ripens, I am supposed to
rule the Rose Kingdom myself, and see that its Laws are obeyed.
Therefore, much as I love you, Shaggy, I must put you to death."

"Wait a minute," pleaded Betsy. "I'd like to see those Royal Gardens
before I die."

"So would I," added Shaggy Man. "Take us there, Gardener."

"Oh, I can't do that," objected the Gardener. But Shaggy again showed
him the Love Magnet and after one glance at it the Gardener could no
longer resist.

He led Shaggy, Betsy and Hank to the end of the great greenhouse and
carefully unlocked a small door. Passing through this they came into
the splendid Royal Garden of the Rose Kingdom.

It was all surrounded by a tall hedge and within the enclosure grew
several enormous rosebushes having thick green leaves of the texture of
velvet. Upon these bushes grew the members of the Royal Family of the
Rose Kingdom--men, women and children in all stages of maturity. They
all seemed to have a light green hue, as if unripe or not fully
developed, their flesh and clothing being alike green. They stood
perfectly lifeless upon their branches, which swayed softly in the
breeze, and their wide open eyes stared straight ahead, unseeing and
unintelligent.

While examining these curious growing people, Betsy passed behind a big
central bush and at once uttered an exclamation of surprise and
pleasure. For there, blooming in perfect color and shape, stood a Royal
Princess, whose beauty was amazing.

"Why, she's ripe!" cried Betsy, pushing aside some of the broad leaves
to observe her more clearly.

"Well, perhaps so," admitted the Gardener, who had come to the girl's
side; "but she's a girl, and so we can't use her for a Ruler."

"No, indeed!" came a chorus of soft voices, and looking around Betsy
discovered that all the Roses had followed them from the greenhouse and
were now grouped before the entrance.

"You see," explained the Gardener, "the subjects of Rose Kingdom don't
want a girl Ruler. They want a King."

"A King! We want a King!" repeated the chorus of Roses.

"Isn't she Royal?" inquired Shaggy, admiring the lovely Princess.

"Of course, for she grows on a Royal Bush. This Princess is named Ozga,
as she is a distant cousin of Ozma of Oz; and, were she but a man, we
would joyfully hail her as our Ruler."

The Gardener then turned away to talk with his Roses and Betsy
whispered to her companion: "Let's pick her, Shaggy."

"All right," said he. "If she's royal, she has the right to rule this
Kingdom, and if we pick her she will surely protect us and prevent our
being hurt, or driven away."

So Betsy and Shaggy each took an arm of the beautiful Rose Princess and
a little twist of her feet set her free of the branch upon which she
grew. Very gracefully she stepped down from the bush to the ground,
where she bowed low to Betsy and Shaggy and said in a delightfully
sweet voice: "I thank you."

But at the sound of these words the Gardener and the Roses turned and
discovered that the Princess had been picked, and was now alive. Over
every face flashed an expression of resentment and anger, and one of
the Roses cried aloud.

"Audacious mortals! What have you done?"

"Picked a Princess for you, that's all," replied Betsy, cheerfully.

"But we won't have her! We want a King!" exclaimed a Jacque Rose, and
another added with a voice of scorn: "No girl shall rule over us!"

The newly-picked Princess looked from one to another of her rebellious
subjects in astonishment. A grieved look came over her exquisite
features.

"Have I no welcome here, pretty subjects?" she asked gently. "Have I
not come from my Royal Bush to be your Ruler?"

"You were picked by mortals, without our consent," replied the Moss
Rose, coldly; "so we refuse to allow you to rule us."

"Turn her out, Gardener, with the others!" cried the Tea Rose.

"Just a second, please!" called Shaggy, taking the Love Magnet from his
pocket. "I guess this will win their love, Princess. Here--take it in
your hand and let the roses see it."

Princess Ozga took the Magnet and held it poised before the eyes of her
subjects; but the Roses regarded it with calm disdain.

"Why, what's the matter?" demanded Shaggy in surprise. "The Magnet
never failed to work before!"

"I know," said Betsy, nodding her head wisely. "These Roses have no
hearts."

"That's it," agreed the Gardener. "They're pretty, and sweet, and
alive; but still they are Roses. Their stems have thorns, but no
hearts."

The Princess sighed and handed the Magnet to the Shaggy Man.

"What shall I do?" she asked sorrowfully.

"Turn her out, Gardener, with the others!" commanded the Roses. "We
will have no Ruler until a man-rose--a King--is ripe enough to pick."

"Very well," said the Gardener meekly. "You must excuse me, my dear
Shaggy, for opposing your wishes, but you and the others, including
Ozga, must get out of Rose Kingdom immediately, if not before."

"Don't you love me, Gardy?" asked Shaggy, carelessly displaying the
Magnet.

"I do. I dote on thee!" answered the Gardener earnestly; "but no true
man will neglect his duty for the sake of love. My duty is to drive you
out, so--out you go!"

With this he seized a garden fork and began jabbing it at the
strangers, in order to force them to leave. Hank the mule was not
afraid of the fork and when he got his heels near to the Gardener the
man fell back to avoid a kick.

But now the Roses crowded around the outcasts and it was soon
discovered that beneath their draperies of green leaves were many sharp
thorns which were more dangerous than Hank's heels. Neither Betsy nor
Ozga nor Shaggy nor the mule cared to brave those thorns and when they
pressed away from them they found themselves slowly driven through the
garden door into the greenhouse. From there they were forced out at the
entrance and so through the territory of the flower-strewn Rose
Kingdom, which was not of very great extent.

The Rose Princess was sobbing bitterly; Betsy was indignant and angry;
Hank uttered defiant "Hee-haws" and the Shaggy Man whistled softly to
himself.

The boundary of the Rose Kingdom was a deep gulf, but there was a
drawbridge in one place and this the Royal Gardener let down until the
outcasts had passed over it. Then he drew it up again and returned with
his Roses to the greenhouse, leaving the four queerly assorted comrades
to wander into the bleak and unknown country that lay beyond.

"I don't mind, much," remarked Shaggy, as he led the way over the
stony, barren ground. "I've got to search for my long-lost little
brother, anyhow, so it won't matter where I go."

"Hank and I will help you find your brother," said Betsy in her most
cheerful voice. "I'm so far away from home now that I don't s'pose I'll
ever find my way back; and, to tell the truth, it's more fun traveling
around and having adventures than sticking at home. Don't you think so,
Hank?"

"Hee-haw!" said Hank, and the Shaggy Man thanked them both.

"For my part," said Princess Ozga of Roseland, with a gentle sigh, "I
must remain forever exiled from my Kingdom. So I, too, will be glad to
help the Shaggy Man find his lost brother."

"That's very kind of you, ma'am," said Shaggy. "But unless I can find
the underground cavern of Ruggedo, the Metal Monarch, I shall never
find poor brother."


(This King was formerly named "Roquat," but after he drank of the
"Waters of Oblivion" he forgot his own name and had to take another.)


"Doesn't anyone know where it is?" inquired Betsy.

"Some one must know, of course," was Shaggy's reply. "But we are not
the ones. The only way to succeed is for us to keep going until we find
a person who can direct us to Ruggedo's cavern."

"We may find it ourselves, without any help," suggested Betsy. "Who
knows?"

"No one knows that, except the person who's writing this story," said
Shaggy. "But we won't find anything--not even supper--unless we travel
on. Here's a path. Let's take it and see where it leads to."




Chapter Seven

Polychrome's Pitiful Plight


The Rain King got too much water in his basin and spilled some over the
brim. That made it rain in a certain part of the country--a real hard
shower, for a time--and sent the Rainbow scampering to the place to
show the gorgeous colors of his glorious bow as soon as the mist of
rain had passed and the sky was clear.

The coming of the Rainbow is always a joyous event to earth folk, yet
few have ever seen it close by. Usually the Rainbow is so far distant
that you can observe its splendid hues but dimly, and that is why we
seldom catch sight of the dancing Daughters of the Rainbow.

In the barren country where the rain had just fallen there appeared to
be no human beings at all; but the Rainbow appeared, just the same, and
dancing gayly upon its arch were the Rainbow's Daughters, led by the
fairylike Polychrome, who is so dainty and beautiful that no girl has
ever quite equalled her in loveliness.

Polychrome was in a merry mood and danced down the arch of the bow to
the ground, daring her sisters to follow her. Laughing and gleeful,
they also touched the ground with their twinkling feet; but all the
Daughters of the Rainbow knew that this was a dangerous pastime, so
they quickly climbed upon their bow again.

All but Polychrome. Though the sweetest and merriest of them all, she
was likewise the most reckless. Moreover, it was an unusual sensation
to pat the cold, damp earth with her rosy toes. Before she realized it
the bow had lifted and disappeared in the billowy blue sky, and here
was Polychrome standing helpless upon a rock, her gauzy draperies
floating about her like brilliant cobwebs and not a soul--fairy or
mortal--to help her regain her lost bow!

"Dear me!" she exclaimed, a frown passing across her pretty face, "I'm
caught again. This is the second time my carelessness has left me on
earth while my sisters returned to our Sky Palaces. The first time I
enjoyed some pleasant adventures, but this is a lonely, forsaken
country and I shall be very unhappy until my Rainbow comes again and I
can climb aboard. Let me think what is best to be done."

She crouched low upon the flat rock, drew her draperies about her and
bowed her head.

It was in this position that Betsy Bobbin spied Polychrome as she came
along the stony path, followed by Hank, the Princess and Shaggy. At
once the girl ran up to the radiant Daughter of the Rainbow and
exclaimed:

"Oh, what a lovely, lovely creature!"

Polychrome raised her golden head. There were tears in her blue eyes.

"I'm the most miserable girl in the whole world!" she sobbed.

The others gathered around her.

"Tell us your troubles, pretty one," urged the Princess.

"I--I've lost my bow!" wailed Polychrome.

"Take me, my dear," said Shaggy Man in a sympathetic tone, thinking she
meant "beau" instead of "bow."

"I don't want you!" cried Polychrome, stamping her foot imperiously; "I
want my Rainbow."

"Oh; that's different," said Shaggy. "But try to forget it. When I was
young I used to cry for the Rainbow myself, but I couldn't have it.
Looks as if you couldn't have it, either; so please don't cry."

Polychrome looked at him reproachfully.

"I don't like you," she said.

"No?" replied Shaggy, drawing the Love Magnet from his pocket; "not a
little bit?--just a wee speck of a like?"

"Yes, yes!" said Polychrome, clasping her hands in ecstasy as she gazed
at the enchanted talisman; "I love you, Shaggy Man!"

"Of course you do," said he calmly; "but I don't take any credit for
it. It's the Love Magnet's powerful charm. But you seem quite alone and
friendless, little Rainbow. Don't you want to join our party until you
find your father and sisters again?"

"Where are you going?" she asked.

"We don't just know that," said Betsy, taking her hand; "but we're
trying to find Shaggy's long-lost brother, who has been captured by the
terrible Metal Monarch. Won't you come with us, and help us?"

Polychrome looked from one to another of the queer party of travelers
and a bewitching smile suddenly lighted her face.

"A donkey, a mortal maid, a Rose Princess and a Shaggy Man!" she
exclaimed. "Surely you need help, if you intend to face Ruggedo."

"Do you know him, then?" inquired Betsy.

"No, indeed. Ruggedo's caverns are beneath the earth's surface, where
no Rainbow can ever penetrate. But I've heard of the Metal Monarch. He
is also called the Nome King, you know, and he has made trouble for a
good many people--mortals and fairies--in his time," said Polychrome.

"Do you fear him, then?" asked the Princess, anxiously.

"No one can harm a Daughter of the Rainbow," said Polychrome proudly.
"I'm a sky fairy."

"Then," said Betsy, quickly, "you will be able to tell us the way to
Ruggedo's cavern."

"No," returned Polychrome, shaking her head, "that is one thing I
cannot do. But I will gladly go with you and help you search for the
place."

This promise delighted all the wanderers and after the Shaggy Man had
found the path again they began moving along it in a more happy mood.
The Rainbow's Daughter danced lightly over the rocky trail, no longer
sad, but with her beautiful features wreathed in smiles. Shaggy came
next, walking steadily and now and then supporting the Rose Princess,
who followed him. Betsy and Hank brought up the rear, and if she tired
with walking the girl got upon Hank's back and let the stout little
donkey carry her for a while.

At nightfall they came to some trees that grew beside a tiny brook and
here they made camp and rested until morning. Then away they tramped,
finding berries and fruits here and there which satisfied the hunger of
Betsy, Shaggy and Hank, so that they were well content with their lot.

It surprised Betsy to see the Rose Princess partake of their food, for
she considered her a fairy; but when she mentioned this to Polychrome,
the Rainbow's Daughter explained that when Ozga was driven out of her
Rose Kingdom she ceased to be a fairy and would never again be more
than a mere mortal. Polychrome, however, was a fairy wherever she
happened to be, and if she sipped a few dewdrops by moonlight for
refreshment no one ever saw her do it.

As they continued their wandering journey, direction meant very little
to them, for they were hopelessly lost in this strange country. Shaggy
said it would be best to go toward the mountains, as the natural
entrance to Ruggedo's underground cavern was likely to be hidden in
some rocky, deserted place; but mountains seemed all around them except
in the one direction that they had come from, which led to the Rose
Kingdom and the sea. Therefore it mattered little which way they
traveled.

By and by they espied a faint trail that looked like a path and after
following this for some time they reached a crossroads. Here were many
paths, leading in various directions, and there was a signpost so old
that there were now no words upon the sign. At one side was an old
well, with a chain windlass for drawing water, yet there was no house
or other building anywhere in sight.

While the party halted, puzzled which way to proceed, the mule
approached the well and tried to look into it.

"He's thirsty," said Betsy.

"It's a dry well," remarked Shaggy. "Probably there has been no water
in it for many years. But, come; let us decide which way to travel."

No one seemed able to decide that. They sat down in a group and tried
to consider which road might be the best to take. Hank, however, could
not keep away from the well and finally he reared up on his hind legs,
got his head over the edge and uttered a loud "Hee-haw!" Betsy watched
her animal friend curiously.

"I wonder if he sees anything down there?" she said.

At this, Shaggy rose and went over to the well to investigate, and
Betsy went with him. The Princess and Polychrome, who had become fast
friends, linked arms and sauntered down one of the roads, to find an
easy path.

"Really," said Shaggy, "there does seem to be something at the bottom
of this old well."

"Can't we pull it up, and see what it is?" asked the girl.

There was no bucket at the end of the windlass chain, but there was a
big hook that at one time was used to hold a bucket. Shaggy let down
this hook, dragged it around on the bottom and then pulled it up. An
old hoopskirt came with it, and Betsy laughed and threw it away. The
thing frightened Hank, who had never seen a hoopskirt before, and he
kept a good distance away from it.

Several other objects the Shaggy Man captured with the hook and drew
up, but none of these was important.

"This well seems to have been the dump for all the old rubbish in the
country," he said, letting down the hook once more. "I guess I've
captured everything now. No--the hook has caught again. Help me, Betsy!
Whatever this thing is, it's heavy."

She ran up and helped him turn the windlass and after much effort a
confused mass of copper came in sight.

"Good gracious!" exclaimed Shaggy. "Here is a surprise, indeed!"

"What is it?" inquired Betsy, clinging to the windlass and panting for
breath.

For answer the Shaggy Man grasped the bundle of copper and dumped it
upon the ground, free of the well. Then he turned it over with his
foot, spread it out, and to Betsy's astonishment the thing proved to be
a copper man.

"Just as I thought," said Shaggy, looking hard at the object. "But
unless there are two copper men in the world this is the most
astonishing thing I ever came across."

At this moment the Rainbow's Daughter and the Rose Princess approached
them, and Polychrome said:

"What have you found, Shaggy One?"

"Either an old friend, or a stranger," he replied.

"Oh, here's a sign on his back!" cried Betsy, who had knelt down to
examine the man. "Dear me; how funny! Listen to this."

Then she read the following words, engraved upon the copper plates of
the man's body:

            SMITH & TINKER'S
  Patent Double-Action, Extra-Responsive,
  Thought-Creating, Perfect-Talking
            MECHANICAL MAN
  Fitted with our Special Clockwork Attachment.
  Thinks, Speaks, Acts, and Does Everything but Live.


"Isn't he wonderful!" exclaimed the Princess.

"Yes; but here's more," said Betsy, reading from another engraved plate:


            DIRECTIONS FOR USING:

  For THINKING:--Wind the Clockwork
    Man under his left arm, (marked No. 1).
  For SPEAKING:--Wind  the  Clockwork
    Man under his right arm, (marked No. 2).
  For WALKING and ACTION:--Wind Clockwork Man
    in the middle of his back, (marked No. 3).

  N. B.--This Mechanism is guaranteed to
  work perfectly for a thousand years.


"If he's guaranteed for a thousand years," said Polychrome, "he ought
to work yet."

"Of course," replied Shaggy. "Let's wind him up."

In order to do this they were obliged to set the copper man upon his
feet, in an upright position, and this was no easy task. He was
inclined to topple over, and had to be propped again and again. The
girls assisted Shaggy, and at last Tik-Tok seemed to be balanced and
stood alone upon his broad feet.

"Yes," said Shaggy, looking at the copper man carefully, "this must be,
indeed, my old friend Tik-Tok, whom I left ticking merrily in the Land
of Oz. But how he came to this lonely place, and got into that old
well, is surely a mystery."

"If we wind him, perhaps he will tell us," suggested Betsy. "Here's the
key, hanging to a hook on his back. What part of him shall I wind up
first?"

"His thoughts, of course," said Polychrome, "for it requires thought to
speak or move intelligently."

So Betsy wound him under his left arm, and at once little flashes of
light began to show in the top of his head, which was proof that he had
begun to think.

"Now, then," said Shaggy, "wind up his phonograph."

"What's that?" she asked.

"Why, his talking-machine. His thoughts may be interesting, but they
don't tell us anything."

So Betsy wound the copper man under his right arm, and then from the
interior of his copper body came in jerky tones the words: "Ma-ny
thanks!"

"Hurrah!" cried Shaggy, joyfully, and he slapped Tik-Tok upon the back
in such a hearty manner that the copper man lost his balance and
tumbled to the ground in a heap. But the clockwork that enabled him to
speak had been wound up and he kept saying: "Pick-me-up! Pick-me-up!
Pick-me-up!" until they had again raised him and balanced him upon his
feet, when he added politely: "Ma-ny thanks!"

"He won't be self-supporting until we wind up his action," remarked
Shaggy; so Betsy wound it, as tight as she could--for the key turned
rather hard--and then Tik-Tok lifted his feet, marched around in a
circle and ended by stopping before the group and making them all a low
bow.

"How in the world did you happen to be in that well, when I left you
safe in Oz?" inquired Shaggy.

"It is a long sto-ry," replied Tik-Tok, "but I'll tell it in a few
words. Af-ter you had gone in search of your broth-er, Oz-ma saw you
wan-der-ing in strange lands when-ev-er she looked in her mag-ic
pic-ture, and she also saw your broth-er in the Nome King's cavern; so
she sent me to tell you where to find your broth-er and told me to help
you if I could. The Sor-cer-ess, Glin-da the Good, trans-port-ed me to
this place in the wink of an eye; but here I met the Nome King
him-self--old Rug-ge-do, who is called in these parts the Met-al
Mon-arch. Rug-ge-do knew what I had come for, and he was so an-gry that
he threw me down the well. Af-ter my works ran down I was help-less
un-til you came a-long and pulled me out a-gain. Ma-ny thanks."

"This is, indeed, good news," said Shaggy. "I suspected that my brother
was the prisoner of Ruggedo; but now I know it. Tell us, Tik-Tok, how
shall we get to the Nome King's underground cavern?"

"The best way is to walk," said Tik-Tok. "We might crawl, or jump, or
roll o-ver and o-ver until we get there; but the best way is to walk."

"I know; but which road shall we take?"

"My ma-chin-er-y is-n't made to tell that," replied Tik-Tok.

"There is more than one entrance to the underground cavern," said
Polychrome; "but old Ruggedo has cleverly concealed every opening, so
that earth dwellers can not intrude in his domain. If we find our way
underground at all, it will be by chance."

"Then," said Betsy, "let us select any road, haphazard, and see where
it leads us."

"That seems sensible," declared the Princess. "It may require a lot of
time for us to find Ruggedo, but we have more time than anything else."

"If you keep me wound up," said Tik-Tok, "I will last a thou-sand
years."

"Then the only question to decide is which way to go," added Shaggy,
looking first at one road and then at another.

But while they stood hesitating, a peculiar sound reached their ears--a
sound like the tramping of many feet.

"What's coming?" cried Betsy; and then she ran to the left-hand road
and glanced along the path. "Why, it's an army!" she exclaimed. "What
shall we do, hide or run?"

"Stand still," commanded Shaggy. "I'm not afraid of an army. If they
prove to be friendly, they can help us; if they are enemies, I'll show
them the Love Magnet."




Chapter Eight

Tik-Tok Tackles a Tough Task


While Shaggy and his companions stood huddled in a group at one side,
the Army of Oogaboo was approaching along the pathway, the tramp of
their feet being now and then accompanied by a dismal groan as one of
the officers stepped on a sharp stone or knocked his funnybone against
his neighbor's sword-handle.

Then out from among the trees marched Private Files, bearing the banner
of Oogaboo, which fluttered from a long pole. This pole he stuck in the
ground just in front of the well and then he cried in a loud voice:

"I hereby conquer this territory in the name of Queen Ann Soforth of
Oogaboo, and all the inhabitants of the land I proclaim her slaves!"

Some of the officers now stuck their heads out of the bushes and asked:

"Is the coast clear, Private Files?"

"There is no coast here," was the reply, "but all's well."

"I hope there's water in it," said General Cone, mustering courage to
advance to the well; but just then he caught a glimpse of Tik-Tok and
Shaggy and at once fell upon his knees, trembling and frightened and
cried out:

"Mercy, kind enemies! Mercy! Spare us, and we will be your slaves
forever!"

The other officers, who had now advanced into the clearing, likewise
fell upon their knees and begged for mercy.

Files turned around and, seeing the strangers for the first time,
examined them with much curiosity. Then, discovering that three of the
party were girls, he lifted his cap and made a polite bow.

"What's all this?" demanded a harsh voice, as Queen Ann reached the
place and beheld her kneeling army.

"Permit us to introduce ourselves," replied Shaggy, stepping forward.
"This is Tik-Tok, the Clockwork Man--who works better than some meat
people. And here is Princess Ozga of Roseland, just now unfortunately
exiled from her Kingdom of Roses. I next present Polychrome, a sky
fairy, who lost her Bow by an accident and can't find her way home. The
small girl here is Betsy Bobbin, from some unknown earthly paradise
called Oklahoma, and with her you see Mr. Hank, a mule with a long tail
and a short temper."

"Puh!" said Ann, scornfully; "a pretty lot of vagabonds you are,
indeed; all lost or strayed, I suppose, and not worth a Queen's
plundering. I'm sorry I've conquered you."

"But you haven't conquered us yet," called Betsy indignantly.

"No," agreed Files, "that is a fact. But if my officers will kindly
command me to conquer you, I will do so at once, after which we can
stop arguing and converse more at our ease."

The officers had by this time risen from their knees and brushed the
dust from their trousers. To them the enemy did not look very fierce,
so the Generals and Colonels and Majors and Captains gained courage to
face them and began strutting in their most haughty manner.

"You must understand," said Ann, "that I am the Queen of Oogaboo, and
this is my invincible Army. We are busy conquering the world, and since
you seem to be a part of the world, and are obstructing our journey, it
is necessary for us to conquer you--unworthy though you may be of such
high honor."

"That's all right," replied Shaggy. "Conquer us as often as you like.
We don't mind."

"But we won't be anybody's slaves," added Betsy, positively.

"We'll see about that," retorted the Queen, angrily. "Advance, Private
Files, and bind the enemy hand and foot!"

But Private Files looked at pretty Betsy and fascinating Polychrome and
the beautiful Rose Princess and shook his head.

"It would be impolite, and I won't do it," he asserted.

"You must!" cried Ann. "It is your duty to obey orders."

"I haven't received any orders from my officers," objected the Private.

But the Generals now shouted: "Forward, and bind the prisoners!" and
the Colonels and Majors and Captains repeated the command, yelling it
as loud as they could.

All this noise annoyed Hank, who had been eyeing the Army of Oogaboo
with strong disfavor. The mule now dashed forward and began backing
upon the officers and kicking fierce and dangerous heels at them. The
attack was so sudden that the officers scattered like dust in a
whirlwind, dropping their swords as they ran and trying to seek refuge
behind the trees and bushes.

Betsy laughed joyously at the comical rout of the "noble army," and
Polychrome danced with glee. But Ann was furious at this ignoble defeat
of her gallant forces by one small mule.

"Private Files, I command you to do your duty!" she cried again, and
then she herself ducked to escape the mule's heels--for Hank made no
distinction in favor of a lady who was an open enemy. Betsy grabbed her
champion by the forelock, however, and so held him fast, and when the
officers saw that the mule was restrained from further attacks they
crept fearfully back and picked up their discarded swords.

"Private Files, seize and bind these prisoners!" screamed the Queen.

"No," said Files, throwing down his gun and removing the knapsack which
was strapped to his back, "I resign my position as the Army of Oogaboo.
I enlisted to fight the enemy and become a hero, but if you want some
one to bind harmless girls you will have to hire another Private."

Then he walked over to the others and shook hands with Shaggy and
Tik-Tok.

"Treason!" shrieked Ann, and all the officers echoed her cry.

"Nonsense," said Files. "I've the right to resign if I want to."

"Indeed you haven't!" retorted the Queen. "If you resign it will break
up my Army, and then I cannot conquer the world." She now turned to the
officers and said: "I must ask you to do me a favor. I know it is
undignified in officers to fight, but unless you immediately capture
Private Files and force him to obey my orders there will be no plunder
for any of us. Also it is likely you will all suffer the pangs of
hunger, and when we meet a powerful foe you are liable to be captured
and made slaves."

The prospect of this awful fate so frightened the officers that they
drew their swords and rushed upon Files, who stood beside Shaggy, in a
truly ferocious manner. The next instant, however, they halted and
again fell upon their knees; for there, before them, was the glistening
Love Magnet, held in the hand of the smiling Shaggy Man, and the sight
of this magic talisman at once won the heart of every Oogabooite. Even
Ann saw the Love Magnet, and forgetting all enmity and anger threw
herself upon Shaggy and embraced him lovingly.

Quite disconcerted by this unexpected effect of the Magnet, Shaggy
disengaged himself from the Queen's encircling arms and quickly hid the
talisman in his pocket. The adventurers from Oogaboo were now his firm
friends, and there was no more talk about conquering and binding any of
his party.

"If you insist on conquering anyone," said Shaggy, "you may march with
me to the underground Kingdom of Ruggedo. To conquer the world, as you
have set out to do, you must conquer everyone under its surface as well
as those upon its surface, and no one in all the world needs conquering
so much as Ruggedo."

"Who is he?" asked Ann.

"The Metal Monarch, King of the Nomes."

"Is he rich?" inquired Major Stockings in an anxious voice.

"Of course," answered Shaggy. "He owns all the metal that lies
underground--gold, silver, copper, brass and tin. He has an idea he
also owns all the metals above ground, for he says all metal was once a
part of his kingdom. So, by conquering the Metal Monarch, you will win
all the riches in the world."

"Ah!" exclaimed General Apple, heaving a deep sigh, "that would be
plunder worth our while. Let's conquer him, Your Majesty."

The Queen looked reproachfully at Files, who was sitting next to the
lovely Princess and whispering in her ear.

"Alas," said Ann, "I have no longer an Army. I have plenty of brave
officers, indeed, but no private soldier for them to command. Therefore
I cannot conquer Ruggedo and win all his wealth."

"Why don't you make one of your officers the Private?" asked Shaggy;
but at once every officer began to protest and the Queen of Oogaboo
shook her head as she replied:

"That is impossible. A private soldier must be a terrible fighter, and
my officers are unable to fight. They are exceptionally brave in
commanding others to fight, but could not themselves meet the enemy and
conquer."

"Very true, Your Majesty," said Colonel Plum, eagerly. "There are many
kinds of bravery and one cannot be expected to possess them all. I
myself am brave as a lion in all ways until it comes to fighting, but
then my nature revolts. Fighting is unkind and liable to be injurious
to others; so, being a gentleman, I never fight."

"Nor I!" shouted each of the other officers.

"You see," said Ann, "how helpless I am. Had not Private Files proved
himself a traitor and a deserter, I would gladly have conquered this
Ruggedo; but an Army without a private soldier is like a bee without a
stinger."

"I am not a traitor, Your Majesty," protested Files. "I resigned in a
proper manner, not liking the job. But there are plenty of people to
take my place. Why not make Shaggy Man the private soldier?"

"He might be killed," said Ann, looking tenderly at Shaggy, "for he is
mortal, and able to die. If anything happened to him, it would break my
heart."

"It would hurt me worse than that," declared Shaggy. "You must admit,
Your Majesty, that I am commander of this expedition, for it is my
brother we are seeking, rather than plunder. But I and my companions
would like the assistance of your Army, and if you help us to conquer
Ruggedo and to rescue my brother from captivity we will allow you to
keep all the gold and jewels and other plunder you may find."

This prospect was so tempting that the officers began whispering
together and presently Colonel Cheese said: "Your Majesty, by combining
our brains we have just evolved a most brilliant idea. We will make the
Clockwork Man the private soldier!"

"Who? Me?" asked Tik-Tok. "Not for a sin-gle sec-ond! I can-not fight,
and you must not for-get that it was Rug-ge-do who threw me in the
well."

"At that time you had no gun," said Polychrome. "But if you join the
Army of Oogaboo you will carry the gun that Mr. Files used."

"A sol-dier must be a-ble to run as well as to fight," protested
Tik-Tok, "and if my works run down, as they of-ten do, I could nei-ther
run nor fight."

"I'll keep you wound up, Tik-Tok," promised Betsy.

"Why, it isn't a bad idea," said Shaggy. "Tik-Tok will make an ideal
soldier, for nothing can injure him except a sledge hammer. And, since
a private soldier seems to be necessary to this Army, Tik-Tok is the
only one of our party fitted to undertake the job."

"What must I do?" asked Tik-Tok.

"Obey orders," replied Ann. "When the officers command you to do
anything, you must do it; that is all."

"And that's enough, too," said Files.

"Do I get a salary?" inquired Tik-Tok.

"You get your share of the plunder," answered the Queen.

"Yes," remarked Files, "one-half of the plunder goes to Queen Ann, the
other half is divided among the officers, and the Private gets the
rest."

"That will be sat-is-fac-tor-y," said Tik-Tok, picking up the gun and
examining it wonderingly, for he had never before seen such a weapon.

Then Ann strapped the knapsack to Tik-Tok's copper back and said: "Now
we are ready to march to Ruggedo's Kingdom and conquer it. Officers,
give the command to march."

"Fall--in!" yelled the Generals, drawing their swords.

"Fall--in!" cried the Colonels, drawing their swords.

"Fall--in!" shouted the Majors, drawing their swords.

"Fall--in!" bawled the Captains, drawing their swords.

Tik-Tok looked at them and then around him in surprise.

"Fall in what? The well?" he asked.

"No," said Queen Ann, "you must fall in marching order."

"Can-not I march without fall-ing in-to it?" asked the Clockwork Man.

"Shoulder your gun and stand ready to march," advised Files; so Tik-Tok
held the gun straight and stood still.

"What next?" he asked.

The Queen turned to Shaggy.

"Which road leads to the Metal Monarch's cavern?"

"We don't know, Your Majesty," was the reply.

"But this is absurd!" said Ann with a frown. "If we can't get to
Ruggedo, it is certain that we can't conquer him."

"You are right," admitted Shaggy; "but I did not say we could not get
to him. We have only to discover the way, and that was the matter we
were considering when you and your magnificent Army arrived here."

"Well, then, get busy and discover it," snapped the Queen.

That was no easy task. They all stood looking from one road to another
in perplexity. The paths radiated from the little clearing like the
rays of the midday sun, and each path seemed like all the others.

Files and the Rose Princess, who had by this time become good friends,
advanced a little way along one of the roads and found that it was
bordered by pretty wild flowers.

"Why don't you ask the flowers to tell you the way?" he said to his
companion.

"The flowers?" returned the Princess, surprised at the question.

"Of course," said Files. "The field-flowers must be second-cousins to a
Rose Princess, and I believe if you ask them they will tell you."

She looked more closely at the flowers. There were hundreds of white
daisies, golden buttercups, bluebells and daffodils growing by the
roadside, and each flower-head was firmly set upon its slender but
stout stem. There were even a few wild roses scattered here and there
and perhaps it was the sight of these that gave the Princess courage to
ask the important question.

She dropped to her knees, facing the flowers, and extended both her
arms pleadingly toward them.

"Tell me, pretty cousins," she said in her sweet, gentle voice, "which
way will lead us to the Kingdom of Ruggedo, the Nome King?"

At once all the stems bent gracefully to the right and the flower heads
nodded once--twice--thrice in that direction.

"That's it!" cried Files joyfully. "Now we know the way."

Ozga rose to her feet and looked wonderingly at the field-flowers,
which had now resumed their upright position.

"Was it the wind, do you think?" she asked in a low whisper.

"No, indeed," replied Files. "There is not a breath of wind stirring.
But these lovely blossoms are indeed your cousins and answered your
question at once, as I knew they would."




Chapter Nine

Ruggedo's Rage is Rash and Reckless


The way taken by the adventurers led up hill and down dale and wound
here and there in a fashion that seemed aimless. But always it drew
nearer to a range of low mountains and Files said more than once that
he was certain the entrance to Ruggedo's cavern would be found among
these rugged hills.

In this he was quite correct. Far underneath the nearest mountain was a
gorgeous chamber hollowed from the solid rock, the walls and roof of
which glittered with thousands of magnificent jewels. Here, on a throne
of virgin gold, sat the famous Nome King, dressed in splendid robes and
wearing a superb crown cut from a single blood-red ruby.

Ruggedo, the Monarch of all the Metals and Precious Stones of the
Underground World, was a round little man with a flowing white beard, a
red face, bright eyes and a scowl that covered all his forehead. One
would think, to look at him, that he ought to be jolly; one might
think, considering his enormous wealth, that he ought to be happy; but
this was not the case. The Metal Monarch was surly and cross because
mortals had dug so much treasure out of the earth and kept it above
ground, where all the power of Ruggedo and his nomes was unable to
recover it. He hated not only the mortals but also the fairies who live
upon the earth or above it, and instead of being content with the
riches he still possessed he was unhappy because he did not own all the
gold and jewels in the world.

Ruggedo had been nodding, half asleep, in his chair when suddenly he
sat upright, uttered a roar of rage and began pounding upon a huge gong
that stood beside him.

The sound filled the vast cavern and penetrated to many caverns beyond,
where countless thousands of nomes were working at their unending
tasks, hammering out gold and silver and other metals, or melting ores
in great furnaces, or polishing glittering gems. The nomes trembled at
the sound of the King's gong and whispered fearfully to one another
that something unpleasant was sure to happen; but none dared pause in
his task.

The heavy curtains of cloth-of-gold were pushed aside and Kaliko, the
King's High Chamberlain, entered the royal presence.

"What's up, Your Majesty?" he asked, with a wide yawn, for he had just
wakened.

"Up?" roared Ruggedo, stamping his foot viciously. "Those foolish
mortals are up, that's what! And they want to come down."

"Down here?" inquired Kaliko.

"Yes!"

"How do you know?" continued the Chamberlain, yawning again.

"I feel it in my bones," said Ruggedo. "I can always feel it when those
hateful earth-crawlers draw near to my Kingdom. I am positive, Kaliko,
that mortals are this very minute on their way here to annoy me--and I
hate mortals more than I do catnip tea!"

"Well, what's to be done?" demanded the nome.

"Look through your spyglass, and see where the invaders are," commanded
the King.

So Kaliko went to a tube in the wall of rock and put his eye to it. The
tube ran from the cavern up to the side of the mountain and turned
several curves and corners, but as it was a magic spyglass Kaliko was
able to see through it just as easily as if it had been straight.

"Ho--hum," said he. "I see 'em, Your Majesty."

"What do they look like?" inquired the Monarch.

"That's a hard question to answer, for a queerer assortment of
creatures I never yet beheld," replied the nome. "However, such a
collection of curiosities may prove dangerous. There's a copper man,
worked by machinery--"

"Bah! that's only Tik-Tok," said Ruggedo. "I'm not afraid of him. Why,
only the other day I met the fellow and threw him down a well."

"Then some one must have pulled him out again," said Kaliko. "And
there's a little girl--"

"Dorothy?" asked Ruggedo, jumping up in fear.

"No; some other girl. In fact, there are several girls, of various
sizes; but Dorothy is not with them, nor is Ozma."

"That's good!" exclaimed the King, sighing in relief.

Kaliko still had his eye to the spyglass.

"I see," said he, "an army of men from Oogaboo. They are all officers
and carry swords. And there is a Shaggy Man--who seems very
harmless--and a little donkey with big ears."

"Pooh!" cried Ruggedo, snapping his fingers in scorn. "I've no fear of
such a mob as that. A dozen of my nomes can destroy them all in a
jiffy."

"I'm not so sure of that," said Kaliko. "The people of Oogaboo are hard
to destroy, and I believe the Rose Princess is a fairy. As for
Polychrome, you know very well that the Rainbow's Daughter cannot be
injured by a nome."

"Polychrome! Is she among them?" asked the King.

"Yes; I have just recognized her."

"Then these people are coming here on no peaceful errand," declared
Ruggedo, scowling fiercely. "In fact, no one ever comes here on a
peaceful errand. I hate everybody, and everybody hates me!"

"Very true," said Kaliko.

"I must in some way prevent these people from reaching my dominions.
Where are they now?"

"Just now they are crossing the Rubber Country, Your Majesty."

"Good! Are your magnetic rubber wires in working order?"

"I think so," replied Kaliko. "Is it your Royal Will that we have some
fun with these invaders?"

"It is," answered Ruggedo. "I want to teach them a lesson they will
never forget."

Now, Shaggy had no idea that he was in a Rubber Country, nor had any of
his companions. They noticed that everything around them was of a dull
gray color and that the path upon which they walked was soft and
springy, yet they had no suspicion that the rocks and trees were rubber
and even the path they trod was made of rubber.

Presently they came to a brook where sparkling water dashed through a
deep channel and rushed away between high rocks far down the
mountain-side. Across the brook were stepping-stones, so placed that
travelers might easily leap from one to another and in that manner
cross the water to the farther bank.

Tik-Tok was marching ahead, followed by his officers and Queen Ann.
After them came Betsy Bobbin and Hank, Polychrome and Shaggy, and last
of all the Rose Princess with Files. The Clockwork Man saw the stream
and the stepping stones and, without making a pause, placed his foot
upon the first stone.

The result was astonishing. First he sank down in the soft rubber,
which then rebounded and sent Tik-Tok soaring high in the air, where he
turned a succession of flip-flops and alighted upon a rubber rock far
in the rear of the party.

General Apple did not see Tik-Tok bound, so quickly had he disappeared;
therefore he also stepped upon the stone (which you will guess was
connected with Kaliko's magnetic rubber wire) and instantly shot upward
like an arrow. General Cone came next and met with a like fate, but the
others now noticed that something was wrong and with one accord they
halted the column and looked back along the path.

There was Tik-Tok, still bounding from one rubber rock to another, each
time rising a less distance from the ground. And there was General
Apple, bounding away in another direction, his three-cornered hat
jammed over his eyes and his long sword thumping him upon the arms and
head as it swung this way and that. And there, also, appeared General
Cone, who had struck a rubber rock headforemost and was so crumpled up
that his round body looked more like a bouncing-ball than the form of a
man.

Betsy laughed merrily at the strange sight and Polychrome echoed her
laughter. But Ozga was grave and wondering, while Queen Ann became
angry at seeing the chief officers of the Army of Oogaboo bounding
around in so undignified a manner. She shouted to them to stop, but
they were unable to obey, even though they would have been glad to do
so. Finally, however, they all ceased bounding and managed to get upon
their feet and rejoin the Army.

"Why did you do that?" demanded Ann, who seemed greatly provoked.

"Don't ask them why," said Shaggy earnestly. "I knew you would ask them
why, but you ought not to do it. The reason is plain. Those stones are
rubber; therefore they are not stones. Those rocks around us are
rubber, and therefore they are not rocks. Even this path is not a path;
it's rubber. Unless we are very careful, your Majesty, we are all
likely to get the bounce, just as your poor officers and Tik-Tok did."

"Then let's be careful," remarked Files, who was full of wisdom; but
Polychrome wanted to test the quality of the rubber, so she began
dancing. Every step sent her higher and higher into the air, so that
she resembled a big butterfly fluttering lightly. Presently she made a
great bound and bounded way across the stream, landing lightly and
steadily on the other side.

"There is no rubber over here," she called to them. "Suppose you all
try to bound over the stream, without touching the stepping-stones."

Ann and her officers were reluctant to undertake such a risky
adventure, but Betsy at once grasped the value of the suggestion and
began jumping up and down until she found herself bounding almost as
high as Polychrome had done. Then she suddenly leaned forward and the
next bound took her easily across the brook, where she alighted by the
side of the Rainbow's Daughter.

"Come on, Hank!" called the girl, and the donkey tried to obey. He
managed to bound pretty high but when he tried to bound across the
stream he misjudged the distance and fell with a splash into the middle
of the water.

"Hee-haw!" he wailed, struggling toward the far bank. Betsy rushed
forward to help him out, but when the mule stood safely beside her she
was amazed to find he was not wet at all.

"It's dry water," said Polychrome, dipping her hand into the stream and
showing how the water fell from it and left it perfectly dry.

"In that case," returned Betsy, "they can all walk through the water."

She called to Ozga and Shaggy to wade across, assuring them the water
was shallow and would not wet them. At once they followed her advice,
avoiding the rubber stepping stones, and made the crossing with ease.
This encouraged the entire party to wade through the dry water, and in
a few minutes all had assembled on the bank and renewed their journey
along the path that led to the Nome King's dominions.

When Kaliko again looked through his magic spyglass he exclaimed:

"Bad luck, Your Majesty! All the invaders have passed the Rubber
Country and now are fast approaching the entrance to your caverns."

Ruggedo raved and stormed at the news and his anger was so great that
several times, as he strode up and down his jeweled cavern, he paused
to kick Kaliko upon his shins, which were so sensitive that the poor
nome howled with pain. Finally the King said:

"There's no help for it; we must drop these audacious invaders down the
Hollow Tube."

Kaliko gave a jump, at this, and looked at his master wonderingly.

"If you do that, Your Majesty," he said, "you will make Tititi-Hoochoo
very angry."

"Never mind that," retorted Ruggedo. "Tititi-Hoochoo lives on the other
side of the world, so what do I care for his anger?"

Kaliko shuddered and uttered a little groan.

"Remember his terrible powers," he pleaded, "and remember that he
warned you, the last time you slid people through the Hollow Tube, that
if you did it again he would take vengeance upon you."

The Metal Monarch walked up and down in silence, thinking deeply.

"Of two dangers," said he, "it is wise to choose the least. What do you
suppose these invaders want?"

"Let the Long-Eared Hearer listen to them," suggested Kaliko.

"Call him here at once!" commanded Ruggedo eagerly.

So in a few minutes there entered the cavern a nome with enormous ears,
who bowed low before the King.

"Strangers are approaching," said Ruggedo, "and I wish to know their
errand. Listen carefully to their talk and tell me why they are coming
here, and what for."

The nome bowed again and spread out his great ears, swaying them gently
up and down and back and forth. For half an hour he stood silent, in an
attitude of listening, while both the King and Kaliko grew impatient at
the delay. At last the Long-Eared Hearer spoke:

"Shaggy Man is coming here to rescue his brother from captivity," said
he.

"Ha, the Ugly One!" exclaimed Ruggedo. "Well, Shaggy Man may have his
ugly brother, for all I care. He's too lazy to work and is always
getting in my way. Where is the Ugly One now, Kaliko?"

"The last time Your Majesty stumbled over the prisoner you commanded me
to send him to the Metal Forest, which I did. I suppose he is still
there."

"Very good. The invaders will have a hard time finding the Metal
Forest," said the King, with a grin of malicious delight, "for half the
time I can't find it myself. Yet I created the forest and made every
tree, out of gold and silver, so as to keep the precious metals in a
safe place and out of the reach of mortals. But tell me, Hearer, do the
strangers want anything else?"

"Yes, indeed they do!" returned the nome. "The Army of Oogaboo is
determined to capture all the rich metals and rare jewels in your
kingdom, and the officers and their Queen have arranged to divide the
spoils and carry them away."

When he heard this Ruggedo uttered a bellow of rage and began dancing
up and down, rolling his eyes, clicking his teeth together and swinging
his arms furiously. Then, in an ecstasy of anger he seized the long
ears of the Hearer and pulled and twisted them cruelly; but Kaliko
grabbed up the King's sceptre and rapped him over the knuckles with it,
so that Ruggedo let go the ears and began to chase his Royal
Chamberlain around the throne.

The Hearer took advantage of this opportunity to slip away from the
cavern and escape, and after the King had tired himself out chasing
Kaliko he threw himself into his throne and panted for breath, while he
glared wickedly at his defiant subject.

"You'd better save your strength to fight the enemy," suggested Kaliko.
"There will be a terrible battle when the Army of Oogaboo gets here."

"The Army won't get here," said the King, still coughing and panting.
"I'll drop 'em down the Hollow Tube--every man Jack and every girl Jill
of 'em!"

"And defy Tititi-Hoochoo?" asked Kaliko.

"Yes. Go at once to my Chief Magician and order him to turn the path
toward the Hollow Tube, and to make the tip of the Tube invisible, so
they'll all fall into it."

Kaliko went away shaking his head, for he thought Ruggedo was making a
great mistake.  He found the Magician and had the path twisted so that
it led directly to the opening of the Hollow Tube, and this opening he
made invisible.

Having obeyed the orders of his master, the Royal Chamberlain went to
his private room and began to write letters of recommendation of
himself, stating that he was an honest man, a good servant and a small
eater.

"Pretty soon," he said to himself, "I shall have to look for another
job, for it is certain that Ruggedo has ruined himself by this reckless
defiance of the mighty Tititi-Hoochoo. And in seeking a job nothing is
so effective as a letter of recommendation."




Chapter Ten

A Terrible Tumble Through a Tube


I suppose that Polychrome, and perhaps Queen Ann and her Army, might
have been able to dispel the enchantment of Ruggedo's Chief Magician
had they known that danger lay in their pathway; for the Rainbow's
Daughter was a fairy and as Oogaboo is a part of the Land of Oz its
inhabitants cannot easily be deceived by such common magic as the Nome
King could command. But no one suspected any especial danger until
after they had entered Ruggedo's cavern, and so they were journeying
along in quite a contented manner when Tik-Tok, who marched ahead,
suddenly disappeared.

The officers thought he must have turned a corner, so they kept on
their way and all of them likewise disappeared--one after another.
Queen Ann was rather surprised at this, and in hastening forward to
learn the reason she also vanished from sight.

Betsy Bobbin had tired her feet by walking, so she was now riding upon
the back of the stout little mule, facing backward and talking to
Shaggy and Polychrome, who were just behind. Suddenly Hank pitched
forward and began falling and Betsy would have tumbled over his head
had she not grabbed the mule's shaggy neck with both arms and held on
for dear life.

All around was darkness, and they were not falling directly downward
but seemed to be sliding along a steep incline. Hank's hoofs were
resting upon some smooth substance over which he slid with the
swiftness of the wind. Once Betsy's heels flew up and struck a similar
substance overhead. They were, indeed, descending the "Hollow Tube"
that led to the other side of the world.

"Stop, Hank--stop!" cried the girl; but Hank only uttered a plaintive
"Hee-haw!" for it was impossible for him to obey.

After several minutes had passed and no harm had befallen them, Betsy
gained courage. She could see nothing at all, nor could she hear
anything except the rush of air past her ears as they plunged downward
along the Tube. Whether she and Hank were alone, or the others were
with them, she could not tell. But had some one been able to take a
flash-light photograph of the Tube at that time a most curious picture
would have resulted. There was Tik-Tok, flat upon his back and sliding
headforemost down the incline. And there were the Officers of the Army
of Oogaboo, all tangled up in a confused crowd, flapping their arms and
trying to shield their faces from the clanking swords, which swung back
and forth during the swift journey and pommeled everyone within their
reach. Now followed Queen Ann, who had struck the Tube in a sitting
position and went flying along with a dash and abandon that thoroughly
bewildered the poor lady, who had no idea what had happened to her.
Then, a little distance away, but unseen by the others in the inky
darkness, slid Betsy and Hank, while behind them were Shaggy and
Polychrome and finally Files and the Princess.

When first they tumbled into the Tube all were too dazed to think
clearly, but the trip was a long one, because the cavity led straight
through the earth to a place just opposite the Nome King's dominions,
and long before the adventurers got to the end they had begun to
recover their wits.

"This is awful, Hank!" cried Betsy in a loud voice, and Queen Ann heard
her and called out: "Are you safe, Betsy?"

"Mercy, no!" answered the little girl. "How could anyone be safe when
she's going about sixty miles a minute?" Then, after a pause, she
added: "But where do you s'pose we're going to, Your Maj'sty?"

"Don't ask her that, please don't!" said Shaggy, who was not too far
away to overhear them. "And please don't ask me why, either."

"Why?" said Betsy.

"No one can tell where we are going until we get there," replied
Shaggy, and then he yelled "Ouch!" for Polychrome had overtaken him and
was now sitting on his head.

The Rainbow's Daughter laughed merrily, and so infectious was this
joyous laugh that Betsy echoed it and Hank said "Hee haw!" in a mild
and sympathetic tone of voice.

"I'd like to know where and when we'll arrive, just the same,"
exclaimed the little girl.

"Be patient and you'll find out, my dear," said Polychrome. "But isn't
this an odd experience? Here am I, whose home is in the skies, making a
journey through the center of the earth--where I never expected to be!"

"How do you know we're in the center of the earth?" asked Betsy, her
voice trembling a little through nervousness.

"Why, we can t be anywhere else," replied Polychrome. "I have often
heard of this passage, which was once built by a Magician who was a
great traveler. He thought it would save him the bother of going around
the earth's surface, but he tumbled through the Tube so fast that he
shot out at the other end and hit a star in the sky, which at once
exploded."

"The star exploded?" asked Betsy wonderingly.

"Yes; the Magician hit it so hard."

"And what became of the Magician?" inquired the girl.

"No one knows that," answered Polychrome. "But I don't think it matters
much."

"It matters a good deal, if we also hit the stars when we come out,"
said Queen Ann, with a moan.

"Don't worry," advised Polychrome. "I believe the Magician was going
the other way, and probably he went much faster than we are going."

"It's fast enough to suit me," remarked Shaggy, gently removing
Polychrome's heel from his left eye. "Couldn't you manage to fall all
by yourself, my dear?"

"I'll try," laughed the Rainbow's Daughter.

All this time they were swiftly falling through the Tube, and it was
not so easy for them to talk as you may imagine when you read their
words. But although they were so helpless and altogether in the dark as
to their fate, the fact that they were able to converse at all cheered
them, considerably.

Files and Ozga were also conversing as they clung tightly to one
another, and the young fellow bravely strove to reassure the Princess,
although he was terribly frightened, both on her account and on his own.

An hour, under such trying circumstances, is a very long time, and for
more than an hour they continued their fearful journey. Then, just as
they began to fear the Tube would never end, Tik-Tok popped out into
broad daylight and, after making a graceful circle in the air, fell
with a splash into a great marble fountain.

Out came the officers, in quick succession, tumbling heels over head
and striking the ground in many undignified attitudes.

"For the love of sassafras!" exclaimed a Peculiar Person who was hoeing
pink violets in a garden. "What can all this mean?"

For answer, Queen Ann sailed up from the Tube, took a ride through the
air as high as the treetops, and alighted squarely on top of the
Peculiar Person's head, smashing a jeweled crown over his eyes and
tumbling him to the ground.

The mule was heavier and had Betsy clinging to his back, so he did not
go so high up. Fortunately for his little rider he struck the ground
upon his four feet. Betsy was jarred a trifle but not hurt and when she
looked around her she saw the Queen and the Peculiar Person struggling
together upon the ground, where the man was trying to choke Ann and she
had both hands in his bushy hair and was pulling with all her might.
Some of the officers, when they got upon their feet, hastened to
separate the combatants and sought to restrain the Peculiar Person so
that he could not attack their Queen again.

By this time, Shaggy, Polychrome, Ozga and Files had all arrived and
were curiously examining the strange country in which they found
themselves and which they knew to be exactly on the opposite side of
the world from the place where they had fallen into the Tube. It was a
lovely place, indeed, and seemed to be the garden of some great Prince,
for through the vistas of trees and shrubbery could be seen the towers
of an immense castle. But as yet the only inhabitant to greet them was
the Peculiar Person just mentioned, who had shaken off the grasp of the
officers without effort and was now trying to pull the battered crown
from off his eyes.

Shaggy, who was always polite, helped him to do this and when the man
was free and could see again he looked at his visitors with evident
amazement.

"Well, well, well!" he exclaimed. "Where did you come from and how did
you get here?"

Betsy tried to answer him, for Queen Ann was surly and silent.

"I can't say, exac'ly where we came from, cause I don't know the name
of the place," said the girl, "but the way we got here was through the
Hollow Tube."

"Don't call it a 'hollow' Tube, please," exclaimed the Peculiar Person
in an irritated tone of voice. "If it's a tube, it's sure to be hollow."

"Why?" asked Betsy.

"Because all tubes are made that way. But this Tube is private property
and everyone is forbidden to fall into it."

"We didn't do it on purpose," explained Betsy, and Polychrome added: "I
am quite sure that Ruggedo, the Nome King, pushed us down that Tube."

"Ha! Ruggedo! Did  you say Ruggedo?" cried the man, becoming much
excited.

"That is what she said," replied Shaggy, "and I believe she is right.
We were on our way to conquer the Nome King when suddenly we fell into
the Tube."

"Then you are enemies of Ruggedo?" inquired the peculiar Person.

"Not exac'ly enemies," said Betsy, a little puzzled by the question,
"'cause we don't know him at all; but we started out to conquer him,
which isn't as friendly as it might be."

"True," agreed the man. He looked thoughtfully from one to another of
them for a while and then he turned his head over his shoulder and
said: "Never mind the fire and pincers, my good brothers. It will be
best to take these strangers to the Private Citizen."

"Very well, Tubekins," responded a Voice, deep and powerful, that
seemed to come out of the air, for the speaker was invisible.

All our friends gave a jump, at this. Even Polychrome was so startled
that her gauze draperies fluttered like a banner in a breeze. Shaggy
shook his head and sighed; Queen Ann looked very unhappy; the officers
clung to each other, trembling violently.

But soon they gained courage to look more closely at the Peculiar
Person. As he was a type of all the inhabitants of this extraordinary
land whom they afterward met, I will try to tell you what he looked
like.

His face was beautiful, but lacked expression. His eyes were large and
blue in color and his teeth finely formed and white as snow. His hair
was black and bushy and seemed inclined to curl at the ends. So far no
one could find any fault with his appearance. He wore a robe of
scarlet, which did not cover his arms and extended no lower than his
bare knees. On the bosom of the robe was embroidered a terrible
dragon's head, as horrible to look at as the man was beautiful. His
arms and legs were left bare and the skin of one arm was bright yellow
and the skin of the other arm a vivid green. He had one blue leg and
one pink one, while both his feet--which showed through the open
sandals he wore--were jet black.

Betsy could not decide whether these gorgeous colors were dyes or the
natural tints of the skin, but while she was thinking it over the man
who had been called "Tubekins" said:

"Follow me to the Residence--all of you!"

But just then a Voice exclaimed: "Here's another of them, Tubekins,
lying in the water of the fountain."

"Gracious!" cried Betsy; "it must be Tik-Tok, and he'll drown."

"Water is a bad thing for his clockworks, anyway," agreed Shaggy, as
with one accord they all started for the fountain. But before they
could reach it, invisible hands raised Tik-Tok from the marble basin
and set him upon his feet beside it, water dripping from every joint of
his copper body.

"Ma--ny tha--tha--tha--thanks!" he said; and then his copper jaws
clicked together and he could say no more. He next made an attempt to
walk but after several awkward trials found he could not move his
joints.

Peals of jeering laughter from persons unseen greeted Tik-Tok's
failure, and the new arrivals in this strange land found it very
uncomfortable to realize that there were many creatures around them who
were invisible, yet could be heard plainly.

"Shall I wind him up?" asked Betsy, feeling very sorry for Tik-Tok.

"I think his machinery is wound; but he needs oiling," replied Shaggy.

At once an oil-can appeared before him, held on a level with his eyes
by some unseen hand. Shaggy took the can and tried to oil Tik-Tok's
joints. As if to assist him, a strong current of warm air was directed
against the copper man which quickly dried him. Soon he was able to say
"Ma-ny thanks!" quite smoothly and his joints worked fairly well.

"Come!" commanded Tubekins, and turning his back upon them he walked up
the path toward the castle.

"Shall we go?" asked Queen Ann, uncertainly; but just then she received
a shove that almost pitched her forward on her head; so she decided to
go. The officers who hesitated received several energetic kicks, but
could not see who delivered them; therefore they also decided--very
wisely--to go. The others followed willingly enough, for unless they
ventured upon another terrible journey through the Tube they must make
the best of the unknown country they were in, and the best seemed to be
to obey orders.




Chapter Eleven

The Famous Fellowship of Fairies


After a short walk through very beautiful gardens they came to the
castle and followed Tubekins through the entrance and into a great
domed chamber, where he commanded them to be seated.

From the crown which he wore, Betsy had thought this man must be the
King of the country they were in, yet after he had seated all the
strangers upon benches that were ranged in a semicircle before a high
throne, Tubekins bowed humbly before the vacant throne and in a flash
became invisible and disappeared.

The hall was an immense place, but there seemed to be no one in it
beside themselves. Presently, however, they heard a low cough near
them, and here and there was the faint rustling of a robe and a slight
patter as of footsteps. Then suddenly there rang out the clear tone of
a bell and at the sound all was changed.

Gazing around the hall in bewilderment they saw that it was filled with
hundreds of men and women, all with beautiful faces and staring blue
eyes and all wearing scarlet robes and jeweled crowns upon their heads.
In fact, these people seemed exact duplicates of Tubekins and it was
difficult to find any mark by which to tell them apart.

"My! what a lot of Kings and Queens!" whispered Betsy to Polychrome,
who sat beside her and appeared much interested in the scene but not a
bit worried.

"It is certainly a strange sight," was Polychrome's reply; "but I
cannot see how there can be more than one King, or Queen, in any one
country, for were these all rulers, no one could tell who was Master."

One of the Kings who stood near and overheard this remark turned to her
and said: "One who is Master of himself is always a King, if only to
himself. In this favored land all Kings and Queens are equal, and it is
our privilege to bow before one supreme Ruler--the Private Citizen."

"Who's he?" inquired Betsy.

As if to answer her, the clear tones of the bell again rang out and
instantly there appeared seated in the throne the man who was lord and
master of all these royal ones. This fact was evident when with one
accord they fell upon their knees and touched their foreheads to the
floor.

The Private Citizen was not unlike the others, except that his eyes
were black instead of blue and in the centers of the black irises
glowed red sparks that seemed like coals of fire. But his features were
very beautiful and dignified and his manner composed and stately.
Instead of the prevalent scarlet robe, he wore one of white, and the
same dragon's head that decorated the others was embroidered upon its
bosom.

"What charge lies against these people, Tubekins?" he asked in quiet,
even tones.

"They came through the forbidden Tube, O Mighty Citizen," was the reply.

"You see, it was this way," said Betsy. "We were marching to the Nome
King, to conquer him and set Shaggy's brother free, when on a sudden--"

"Who are you?" demanded the Private Citizen sternly.

"Me? Oh, I'm Betsy Bobbin, and--"

"Who is the leader of this party?" asked the Citizen.

"Sir, I am Queen Ann of Oogaboo, and--"

"Then keep quiet," said the Citizen. "Who is the leader?"

No one answered for a moment. Then General Bunn stood up.

"Sit down!" commanded the Citizen. "I can see that sixteen of you are
merely officers, and of no account."

"But we have an Army," said General Clock, blusteringly, for he didn't
like to be told he was of no account.

"Where is your Army?" asked the Citizen.

"It's me," said Tik-Tok, his voice sounding a little rusty. "I'm the
on-ly Pri-vate Sol-dier in the par-ty."

Hearing this, the Citizen rose and bowed respectfully to the Clockwork
Man.

"Pardon me for not realizing your importance before," said he. "Will
you oblige me by taking a seat beside me on my throne?"

Tik-Tok rose and walked over to the throne, all the Kings and Queens
making way for him. Then with clanking steps he mounted the platform
and sat on the broad seat beside the Citizen.

Ann was greatly provoked at this mark of favor shown to the humble
Clockwork Man, but Shaggy seemed much pleased that his old friend's
importance had been recognized by the ruler of this remarkable country.
The Citizen now began to question Tik-Tok, who told in his mechanical
voice about Shaggy's quest of his lost brother, and how Ozma of Oz had
sent the Clockwork Man to assist him, and how they had fallen in with
Queen Ann and her people from Oogaboo. Also he told how Betsy and Hank
and Polychrome and the Rose Princess had happened to join their party.

"And you intended to conquer Ruggedo, the Metal Monarch and King of the
Nomes?" asked the Citizen.

"Yes. That seemed the on-ly thing for us to do," was Tik-Tok's reply.
"But he was too cle-ver for us. When we got close to his cav-ern he
made our path lead to the Tube, and made the op-en-ing in-vis-i-ble, so
that we all fell in-to it be-fore we knew it was there. It was an eas-y
way to get rid of us and now Rug-gedo is safe and we are far a-way in a
strange land."

The Citizen was silent a moment and seemed to be thinking. Then he said:

"Most noble Private Soldier, I must inform you that by the laws of our
country anyone who comes through the Forbidden Tube must be tortured
for nine days and ten nights and then thrown back into the Tube. But it
is wise to disregard laws when they conflict with justice, and it seems
that you and your followers did not disobey our laws willingly, being
forced into the Tube by Ruggedo. Therefore the Nome King is alone to
blame, and he alone must be punished."

"That suits me," said Tik-Tok. "But Rug-ge-do is on the o-ther side of
the world where he is a-way out of your reach."

The Citizen drew himself up proudly.

"Do you imagine anything in the world or upon it can be out of the
reach of the Great Jinjin?" he asked.

"Oh! Are you, then, the Great Jinjin?" inquired Tik-Tok.

"I am."

"Then your name is Ti-ti-ti-Hoo-choo?"

"It is."

Queen Ann gave a scream and began to tremble. Shaggy was so disturbed
that he took out a handkerchief and wiped the perspiration from his
brow. Polychrome looked sober and uneasy for the first time, while
Files put his arms around the Rose Princess as if to protect her. As
for the officers, the name of the great Jinjin set them moaning and
weeping at a great rate and every one fell upon his knees before the
throne, begging for mercy. Betsy was worried at seeing her companions
so disturbed, but did not know what it was all about. Only Tik-Tok was
unmoved at the discovery.

"Then," said he, "if you are Ti-ti-ti-Hoo-choo, and think Rug-ge-do is
to blame, I am sure that some-thing queer will hap-pen to the King of
the Nomes."

"I wonder what 'twill be," said Betsy.

The Private Citizen--otherwise known as Tititi-Hoochoo, the Great
Jinjin--looked at the little girl steadily.

"I will presently decide what is to happen to Ruggedo," said he in a
hard, stern voice. Then, turning to the throng of Kings and Queens, he
continued: "Tik-Tok has spoken truly, for his machinery will not allow
him to lie, nor will it allow his thoughts to think falsely. Therefore
these people are not our enemies and must be treated with consideration
and justice. Take them to your palaces and entertain them as guests
until to-morrow, when I command that they be brought again to my
Residence. By then I shall have formed my plans."

No sooner had Tititi-Hoochoo spoken than he disappeared from sight.
Immediately after, most of the Kings and Queens likewise disappeared.
But several of them remained visible and approached the strangers with
great respect. One of the lovely Queens said to Betsy:

"I trust you will honor me by being my guest. I am Erma, Queen of
Light."

"May Hank come with me?" asked the girl.

"The King of Animals will care for your mule," was the reply. "But do
not fear for him, for he will be treated royally. All of your party
will be reunited on the morrow."

"I--I'd like to have some one with me," said Betsy, pleadingly.

Queen Erma looked around and smiled upon Polychrome.

"Will the Rainbow's Daughter be an agreeable companion?" she asked.

"Oh, yes!" exclaimed the girl.

So Polychrome and Betsy became guests of the Queen of Light, while
other beautiful Kings and Queens took charge of the others of the party.

The two girls followed Erma out of the hall and through the gardens of
the Residence to a village of pretty dwellings. None of these was so
large or imposing as the castle of the Private Citizen, but all were
handsome enough to be called palaces--as, in fact, they really were.




Chapter Twelve

The Lovely Lady of Light


The palace of the Queen of Light stood on a little eminence and was a
mass of crystal windows, surmounted by a vast crystal dome. When they
entered the portals Erma was greeted by six lovely maidens, evidently
of high degree, who at once aroused Betsy's admiration. Each bore a
wand in her hand, tipped with an emblem of light, and their costumes
were also emblematic of the lights they represented. Erma introduced
them to her guests and each made a graceful and courteous
acknowledgment.

First was Sunlight, radiantly beautiful and very fair; the second was
Moonlight, a soft, dreamy damsel with nut-brown hair; next came
Starlight, equally lovely but inclined to be retiring and shy. These
three were dressed in shimmering robes of silvery white. The fourth was
Daylight, a brilliant damsel with laughing eyes and frank manners, who
wore a variety of colors. Then came Firelight, clothed in a fleecy
flame-colored robe that wavered around her shapely form in a very
attractive manner. The sixth maiden, Electra, was the most beautiful of
all, and Betsy thought from the first that both Sunlight and Daylight
regarded Electra with envy and were a little jealous of her.

But all were cordial in their greetings to the strangers and seemed to
regard the Queen of Light with much affection, for they fluttered
around her in a flashing, radiant group as she led the way to her regal
drawing-room.

This apartment was richly and cosily furnished, the upholstery being of
many tints, and both Betsy and Polychrome enjoyed resting themselves
upon the downy divans after their strenuous adventures of the day.

The Queen sat down to chat with her guests, who noticed that Daylight
was the only maiden now seated beside Erma. The others had retired to
another part of the room, where they sat modestly with entwined arms
and did not intrude themselves at all.

The Queen told the strangers all about this beautiful land, which is
one of the chief residences of fairies who minister to the needs of
mankind. So many important fairies lived there that, to avoid rivalry,
they had elected as their Ruler the only important personage in the
country who had no duties to mankind to perform and was, in effect, a
Private Citizen. This Ruler, or Jinjin, as was his title, bore the name
of Tititi-Hoochoo, and the most singular thing about him was that he
had no heart. But instead of this he possessed a high degree of Reason
and Justice and while he showed no mercy in his judgments he never
punished unjustly or without reason. To wrong-doers Tititi-Hoochoo was
as terrible as he was heartless, but those who were innocent of evil
had nothing to fear from him.

All the Kings and Queens of this fairyland paid reverence to Jinjin,
for as they expected to be obeyed by others they were willing to obey
the one in authority over them.

The inhabitants of the Land of Oz had heard many tales of this
fearfully just Jinjin, whose punishments were always equal to the
faults committed. Polychrome also knew of him, although this was the
first time she had ever seen him face to face. But to Betsy the story
was all new, and she was greatly interested in Tititi-Hoochoo, whom she
no longer feared.

Time sped swiftly during their talk and suddenly Betsy noticed that
Moonlight was sitting beside the Queen of Light, instead of Daylight.

"But tell me, please," she pleaded, "why do you all wear a dragon's
head embroidered on your gowns?"

Erma's pleasant face became grave as she answered:

"The Dragon, as you must know, was the first living creature ever made;
therefore the Dragon is the oldest and wisest of living things. By good
fortune the Original Dragon, who still lives, is a resident of this
land and supplies us with wisdom whenever we are in need of it. He is
old as the world and remembers everything that has happened since the
world was created."

"Did he ever have any children?" inquired the girl.

"Yes, many of them. Some wandered into other lands, where men, not
understanding them, made war upon them; but many still reside in this
country. None, however, is as wise as the Original Dragon, for whom we
have great respect. As he was the first resident here, we wear the
emblem of the dragon's head to show that we are the favored people who
alone have the right to inhabit this fairyland, which in beauty almost
equals the Fairyland of Oz, and in power quite surpasses it."

"I understand about the dragon, now," said Polychrome, nodding her
lovely head. Betsy did not quite understand, but she was at present
interested in observing the changing lights. As Daylight had given way
to Moonlight, so now Starlight sat at the right hand of Erma the Queen,
and with her coming a spirit of peace and content seemed to fill the
room. Polychrome, being herself a fairy, had many questions to ask
about the various Kings and Queens who lived in this far-away, secluded
place, and before Erma had finished answering them a rosy glow filled
the room and Firelight took her place beside the Queen.

Betsy liked Firelight, but to gaze upon her warm and glowing features
made the little girl sleepy, and presently she began to nod. Thereupon
Erma rose and took Betsy's hand gently in her own.

"Come," said she; "the feast time has arrived and the feast is spread."

"That's nice," exclaimed the small mortal. "Now that I think of it, I'm
awful hungry. But p'raps I can't eat your fairy food."

The Queen smiled and led her to a doorway. As she pushed aside a heavy
drapery a flood of silvery light greeted them, and Betsy saw before her
a splendid banquet hall, with a table spread with snowy linen and
crystal and silver. At one side was a broad, throne-like seat for Erma
and beside her now sat the brilliant maid Electra. Polychrome was
placed on the Queen's right hand and Betsy upon her left. The other
five messengers of light now waited upon them, and each person was
supplied with just the food she liked best. Polychrome found her dish
of dewdrops, all fresh and sparkling, while Betsy was so lavishly
served that she decided she had never in her life eaten a dinner half
so good.

"I s'pose," she said to the Queen, "that Miss Electra is the youngest
of all these girls."

"Why do you suppose that?" inquired Erma, with a smile.

"'Cause electric'ty is the newest light we know of. Didn't Mr. Edison
discover it?"

"Perhaps he was the first mortal to discover it," replied the Queen.
"But electricity was a part of the world from its creation, and
therefore my Electra is as old as Daylight or Moonlight, and equally
beneficent to mortals and fairies alike."

Betsy was thoughtful for a time. Then she remarked, as she looked at
the six messengers of light:

"We couldn't very well do without any of 'em; could we?"

Erma laughed softly. "I couldn't, I'm sure," she replied, "and I think
mortals would miss any one of my maidens, as well. Daylight cannot take
the place of Sunlight, which gives us strength and energy. Moonlight is
of value when Daylight, worn out with her long watch, retires to rest.
If the moon in its course is hidden behind the earth's rim, and my
sweet Moonlight cannot cheer us, Starlight takes her place, for the
skies always lend her power. Without Firelight we should miss much of
our warmth and comfort, as well as much cheer when the walls of houses
encompass us. But always, when other lights forsake us, our glorious
Electra is ready to flood us with bright rays. As Queen of Light, I
love all my maidens, for I know them to be faithful and true."

"I love 'em too!" declared Betsy. "But sometimes, when I'm real sleepy,
I can get along without any light at all."

"Are you sleepy now?" inquired Erma, for the feast had ended.

"A little," admitted the girl.

So Electra showed her to a pretty chamber where there was a soft, white
bed, and waited patiently until Betsy had undressed and put on a
shimmery silken nightrobe that lay beside her pillow. Then the
light-maid bade her good night and opened the door.

When she closed it after her Betsy was in darkness. In six winks the
little girl was fast asleep.




Chapter Thirteen

The Jinjin's Just Judgment


All the adventurers were reunited next morning when they were brought
from various palaces to the Residence of Tititi-Hoochoo and ushered
into the great Hall of State.

As before, no one was visible except our friends and their escorts
until the first bell sounded. Then in a flash the room was seen to be
filled with the beautiful Kings and Queens of the land. The second bell
marked the appearance in the throne of the mighty Jinjin, whose
handsome countenance was as composed and expressionless as ever.

All bowed low to the Ruler. Their voices softly murmured: "We greet the
Private Citizen, mightiest of Rulers, whose word is Law and whose Law
is just."

Tititi-Hoochoo bowed in acknowledgment. Then, looking around the
brilliant assemblage, and at the little group of adventurers before
him, he said:

"An unusual thing has happened. Inhabitants of other lands than ours,
who are different from ourselves in many ways, have been thrust upon us
through the Forbidden Tube, which one of our people foolishly made
years ago and was properly punished for his folly. But these strangers
had no desire to come here and were wickedly thrust into the Tube by a
cruel King on the other side of the world, named Ruggedo. This King is
an immortal, but he is not good. His magic powers hurt mankind more
than they benefit them. Because he had unjustly kept the Shaggy Man's
brother a prisoner, this little band of honest people, consisting of
both mortals and immortals, determined to conquer Ruggedo and to punish
him. Fearing they might succeed in this, the Nome King misled them so
that they fell into the Tube.

"Now, this same Ruggedo has been warned by me, many times, that if ever
he used this Forbidden Tube in any way he would be severely punished. I
find, by referring to the Fairy Records, that this King's servant, a
nome named Kaliko, begged his master not to do such a wrong act as to
drop these people into the Tube and send them tumbling into our
country. But Ruggedo defied me and my orders.

"Therefore these strangers are innocent of any wrong. It is only
Ruggedo who deserves punishment, and I will punish him." He paused a
moment and then continued in the same cold, merciless voice:

"These strangers must return through the Tube to their own side of the
world; but I will make their fall more easy and pleasant than it was
before. Also I shall send with them an Instrument of Vengeance, who in
my name will drive Ruggedo from his underground caverns, take away his
magic powers and make him a homeless wanderer on the face of the
earth--a place he detests."

There was a little murmur of horror from the Kings and Queens at the
severity of this punishment, but no one uttered a protest, for all
realized that the sentence was just.

"In selecting my Instrument of Vengeance," went on Tititi-Hoochoo, "I
have realized that this will be an unpleasant mission. Therefore no one
of us who is blameless should be forced to undertake it. In this
wonderful land it is seldom one is guilty of wrong, even in the
slightest degree, and on examining the Records I found no King or Queen
had erred. Nor had any among their followers or servants done any
wrong. But finally I came to the Dragon Family, which we highly
respect, and then it was that I discovered the error of Quox.

"Quox, as you well know, is a young dragon who has not yet acquired the
wisdom of his race. Because of this lack, he has been disrespectful
toward his most ancient ancestor, the Original Dragon, telling him once
to mind his own business and again saying that the Ancient One had
grown foolish with age. We are aware that dragons are not the same as
fairies and cannot be altogether guided by our laws, yet such
disrespect as Quox has shown should not be unnoticed by us. Therefore I
have selected Quox as my royal Instrument of Vengeance and he shall go
through the Tube with these people and inflict upon Ruggedo the
punishment I have decreed."

All had listened quietly to this speech and now the Kings and Queens
bowed gravely to signify their approval of the Jinjin's judgment.

Tititi-Hoochoo turned to Tubekins.

"I command you," said he, "to escort these strangers to the Tube and
see that they all enter it."

The King of the Tube, who had first discovered our friends and brought
them to the Private Citizen, stepped forward and bowed. As he did so,
the Jinjin and all the Kings and Queens suddenly disappeared and only
Tubekins remained visible.

"All right," said Betsy, with a sigh; "I don't mind going back so very
much, 'cause the Jinjin promised to make it easy for us."

Indeed, Queen Ann and her officers were the only ones who looked solemn
and seemed to fear the return journey. One thing that bothered Ann was
her failure to conquer this land of Tititi-Hoochoo. As they followed
their guide through the gardens to the mouth of the Tube she said to
Shaggy:

"How can I conquer the world, if I go away and leave this rich country
unconquered?"

"You can't," he replied. "Don't ask me why, please, for if you don't
know I can't inform you."

"Why not?" said Ann; but Shaggy paid no attention to the question.

This end of the Tube had a silver rim and around it was a gold railing
to which was attached a sign that read.

  "IF YOU ARE OUT, STAY THERE.
  IF YOU ARE IN, DON'T COME OUT."


On a little silver plate just inside the Tube was engraved the words:


  "Burrowed and built by
  Hiergargo the Magician,
  In the Year of the World
  1 9 6 2 5 4 7 8
  For his own exclusive uses."


"He was some builder, I must say," remarked Betsy, when she had read
the inscription; "but if he had known about that star I guess he'd have
spent his time playing solitaire."

"Well, what are we waiting for?" inquired Shaggy, who was impatient to
start.

"Quox," replied Tubekins. "But I think I hear him coming."

"Is the young dragon invisible?" asked Ann, who had never seen a live
dragon and was a little fearful of meeting one.

"No, indeed," replied the King of the Tube. "You'll see him in a
minute; but before you part company I'm sure you'll wish he was
invisible."

"Is he dangerous, then?" questioned Files.

"Not at all. But Quox tires me dreadfully," said Tubekins, "and I
prefer his room to his company."

At that instant a scraping sound was heard, drawing nearer and nearer
until from between two big bushes appeared a huge dragon, who
approached the party, nodded his head and said: "Good morning."

Had Quox been at all bashful I am sure he would have felt uncomfortable
at the astonished stare of every eye in the group--except Tubekins, of
course, who was not astonished because he had seen Quox so often.

Betsy had thought a "young" dragon must be a small dragon, yet here was
one so enormous that the girl decided he must be full grown, if not
overgrown. His body was a lovely sky-blue in color and it was thickly
set with glittering silver scales, each one as big as a serving-tray.
Around his neck was a pink ribbon with a bow just under his left ear,
and below the ribbon appeared a chain of pearls to which was attached a
golden locket about as large around as the end of a bass drum. This
locket was set with many large and beautiful jewels.

The head and face of Quox were not especially ugly, when you consider
that he was a dragon; but his eyes were so large that it took him a
long time to wink and his teeth seemed very sharp and terrible when
they showed, which they did whenever the beast smiled. Also his
nostrils were quite large and wide, and those who stood near him were
liable to smell brimstone--especially when he breathed out fire, as it
is the nature of dragons to do. To the end of his long tail was
attached a big electric light.

Perhaps the most singular thing about the dragon's appearance at this
time was the fact that he had a row of seats attached to his back, one
seat for each member of the party. These seats were double, with curved
backs, so that two could sit in them, and there were twelve of these
double seats, all strapped firmly around the dragon's thick body and
placed one behind the other, in a row that extended from his shoulders
nearly to his tail.

"Aha!" exclaimed Tubekins; "I see that Tititi-Hoochoo has transformed
Quox into a carryall."

"I'm glad of that," said Betsy. "I hope, Mr. Dragon, you won't mind our
riding on your back."

"Not a bit," replied Quox. "I'm in disgrace just now, you know, and the
only way to redeem my good name is to obey the orders of the Jinjin. If
he makes me a beast of burden, it is only a part of my punishment, and
I must bear it like a dragon. I don't blame you people at all, and I
hope you'll enjoy the ride. Hop on, please. All aboard for the other
side of the world!"

Silently they took their places. Hank sat in the front seat with Betsy,
so that he could rest his front hoofs upon the dragon's head. Behind
them were Shaggy and Polychrome, then Files and the Princess, and Queen
Ann and Tik-Tok. The officers rode in the rear seats. When all had
mounted to their places the dragon looked very like one of those
sightseeing wagons so common in big cities--only he had legs instead of
wheels.

"All ready?" asked Quox, and when they said they were he crawled to the
mouth of the Tube and put his head in.

"Good-bye, and good luck to you!" called Tubekins; but no one thought
to reply, because just then the dragon slid his great body into the
Tube and the journey to the other side of the world had begun.

At first they went so fast that they could scarcely catch their
breaths, but presently Quox slowed up and said with a sort of cackling
laugh:

"My scales! but that is some tumble. I think I shall take it easy and
fall slower, or I'm likely to get dizzy. Is it very far to the other
side of the world?"

"Haven't you ever been through this Tube before?" inquired Shaggy.

"Never. Nor has anyone else in our country; at least, not since I was
born."

"How long ago was that?" asked Betsy.

"That I was born? Oh, not very long ago. I'm only a mere child. If I
had not been sent on this journey, I would have celebrated my three
thousand and fifty-sixth birthday next Thursday. Mother was going to
make me a birthday cake with three thousand and fifty-six candles on
it; but now, of course, there will be no celebration, for I fear I
shall not get home in time for it."

"Three thousand and fifty-six years!" cried Betsy. "Why, I had no idea
anything could live that long!"

"My respected Ancestor, whom I would call a stupid old humbug if I had
not reformed, is so old that I am a mere baby compared with him," said
Quox. "He dates from the beginning of the world, and insists on telling
us stories of things that happened fifty thousand years ago, which are
of no interest at all to youngsters like me. In fact, Grandpa isn't up
to date. He lives altogether in the past, so I can't see any good
reason for his being alive to-day.... Are you people able to see your
way, or shall I turn on more light?"

"Oh, we can see very nicely, thank you; only there's nothing to see but
ourselves," answered Betsy.

This was true. The dragon's big eyes were like headlights on an
automobile and illuminated the Tube far ahead of them. Also he curled
his tail upward so that the electric light on the end of it enabled
them to see one another quite clearly. But the Tube itself was only
dark metal, smooth as glass but exactly the same from one of its ends
to the other. Therefore there was no scenery of interest to beguile the
journey.

They were now falling so gently that the trip was proving entirely
comfortable, as the Jinjin had promised it would be; but this meant a
longer journey and the only way they could make time pass was to engage
in conversation. The dragon seemed a willing and persistent talker and
he was of so much interest to them that they encouraged him to chatter.
His voice was a little gruff but not unpleasant when one became used to
it.

"My only fear," said he presently, "is that this constant sliding over
the surface of the Tube will dull my claws. You see, this hole isn't
straight down, but on a steep slant, and so instead of tumbling freely
through the air I must skate along the Tube. Fortunately, there is a
file in my tool-kit, and if my claws get dull they can be sharpened
again."

"Why do you want sharp claws?" asked Betsy.

"They are my natural weapons, and you must not forget that I have been
sent to conquer Ruggedo."

"Oh, you needn't mind about that," remarked Queen Ann, in her most
haughty manner; "for when we get to Ruggedo I and my invincible Army
can conquer him without your assistance."

"Very good," returned the dragon, cheerfully. "That will save me a lot
of bother--if you succeed. But I think I shall file my claws, just the
same."

He gave a long sigh, as he said this, and a sheet of flame, several
feet in length, shot from his mouth. Betsy shuddered and Hank said
"Hee-haw!" while some of the officers screamed in terror. But the
dragon did not notice that he had done anything unusual.

"Is there fire inside of you?" asked Shaggy.

"Of course," answered Quox. "What sort of a dragon would I be if my
fire went out?"

"What keeps it going?" Betsy inquired.

"I've no idea. I only know it's there," said Quox. "The fire keeps me
alive and enables me to move; also to think and speak."

"Ah! You are ver-y much like my-self," said Tik-Tok. "The on-ly
dif-fer-ence is that I move by clock-work, while you move by fire."

"I don't see a particle of likeness between us, I must confess,"
retorted Quox, gruffly. "You are not a live thing; you're a dummy."

"But I can do things, you must ad-mit," said Tik-Tok.

"Yes, when you are wound up," sneered the dragon. "But if you run down,
you are helpless."

"What would happen to you, Quox, if you ran out of gasoline?" inquired
Shaggy, who did not like this attack upon his friend.

"I don't use gasoline."

"Well, suppose you ran out of fire."

"What's the use of supposing that?" asked Quox.  "My
great-great-great-grandfather has lived since the world began, and he
has never once run out of fire to keep him going. But I will confide to
you that as he gets older he shows more smoke and less fire. As for
Tik-Tok, he's well enough in his way, but he's merely copper. And the
Metal Monarch knows copper through and through. I wouldn't be surprised
if Ruggedo melted Tik-Tok in one of his furnaces and made copper
pennies of him."

"In that case, I would still keep going," remarked Tik-Tok, calmly.

"Pennies do," said Betsy regretfully.

"This is all nonsense," said the Queen, with irritation. "Tik-Tok is my
great Army--all but the officers--and I believe he will be able to
conquer Ruggedo with ease. What do you think, Polychrome?"

"You might let him try," answered the Rainbow's Daughter, with her
sweet ringing laugh, that sounded like the tinkling of tiny bells. "And
if Tik-Tok fails, you have still the big fire-breathing dragon to fall
back on."

"Ah!" said the dragon, another sheet of flame gushing from his mouth
and nostrils; "it's a wise little girl, this Polychrome. Anyone would
know she is a fairy."




Chapter Fourteen

The Long-Eared Hearer Learns by Listening


During this time Ruggedo, the Metal Monarch and King of the Nomes, was
trying to amuse himself in his splendid jeweled cavern. It was hard
work for Ruggedo to find amusement to-day, for all the nomes were
behaving well and there was no one to scold or to punish. The King had
thrown his sceptre at Kaliko six times, without hitting him once. Not
that Kaliko had done anything wrong. On the contrary, he had obeyed the
King in every way but one: he would not stand still, when commanded to
do so, and let the heavy sceptre strike him.

We can hardly blame Kaliko for this, and even the cruel Ruggedo forgave
him; for he knew very well that if he mashed his Royal Chamberlain he
could never find another so intelligent and obedient. Kaliko could make
the nomes work when their King could not, for the nomes hated Ruggedo
and there were so many thousands of the quaint little underground
people that they could easily have rebelled and defied the King had
they dared to do so. Sometimes, when Ruggedo abused them worse than
usual, they grew sullen and threw down their hammers and picks. Then,
however hard the King scolded or whipped them, they would not work
until Kaliko came and begged them to. For Kaliko was one of themselves
and was as much abused by the King as any nome in the vast series of
caverns.

But to-day all the little people were working industriously at their
tasks and Ruggedo, having nothing to do, was greatly bored. He sent for
the Long-Eared Hearer and asked him to listen carefully and report what
was going on in the big world.

"It seems," said the Hearer, after listening for awhile, "that the
women in America have clubs."

"Are there spikes in them?" asked Ruggedo, yawning.

"I cannot hear any spikes, Your Majesty," was the reply.

"Then their clubs are not as good as my sceptre. What else do you hear?'

"There's a war.

"Bah! there's always a war. What else?"

For a time the Hearer was silent, bending forward and spreading out his
big ears to catch the slightest sound. Then suddenly he said:

"Here is an interesting thing, Your Majesty. These people are arguing
as to who shall conquer the Metal Monarch, seize his treasure and drive
him from his dominions."

"What people?" demanded Ruggedo, sitting up straight in his throne.

"The ones you threw down the Hollow Tube."

"Where are they now?"

"In the same Tube, and coming back this way," said the Hearer.

Ruggedo got out of his throne and began to pace up and down the cavern.

"I wonder what can be done to stop them," he mused.

"Well," said the Hearer, "if you could turn the Tube upside down, they
would be falling the other way, Your Majesty."

Ruggedo glared at him wickedly, for it was impossible to turn the Tube
upside down and he believed the Hearer was slyly poking fun at him.
Presently he asked:

"How far away are those people now?"

"About nine thousand three hundred and six miles, seventeen furlongs,
eight feet and four inches--as nearly as I can judge from the sound of
their voices," replied the Hearer.

"Aha! Then it will be some time before they arrive," said Ruggedo, "and
when they get here I shall be ready to receive them."

He rushed to his gong and pounded upon it so fiercely that Kaliko came
bounding into the cavern with one shoe off and one shoe on, for he was
just dressing himself after a swim in the hot bubbling lake of the
Underground Kingdom.

"Kaliko, those invaders whom we threw down the Tube are coming back
again!" he exclaimed.

"I thought they would," said the Royal Chamberlain, pulling on the
other shoe. "Tititi-Hoochoo would not allow them to remain in his
kingdom, of course, and so I've been expecting them back for some time.
That was a very foolish action of yours, Rug."

"What, to throw them down the Tube?"

"Yes. Tititi-Hoochoo has forbidden us to throw even rubbish into the
Tube."

"Pooh! what do I care for the Jinjin?" asked Ruggedo scornfully. "He
never leaves his own kingdom, which is on the other side of the world."

"True; but he might send some one through the Tube to punish you,"
suggested Kaliko.

"I'd like to see him do it! Who could conquer my thousands of nomes?"

"Why, they've been conquered before, if I remember aright," answered
Kaliko with a grin. "Once I saw you running from a little girl named
Dorothy, and her friends, as if you were really afraid."

"Well, I was afraid, that time," admitted the Nome King, with a deep
sigh, "for Dorothy had a Yellow Hen that laid eggs!"

The King shuddered as he said "eggs," and Kaliko also shuddered, and so
did the Long-Eared Hearer; for eggs are the only things that the nomes
greatly dread. The reason for this is that eggs belong on the earth's
surface, where birds and fowl of all sorts live, and there is something
about a hen's egg, especially, that fills a nome with horror. If by
chance the inside of an egg touches one of these underground people, he
withers up and blows away and that is the end of him--unless he manages
quickly to speak a magical word which only a few of the nomes know.
Therefore Ruggedo and his followers had very good cause to shudder at
the mere mention of eggs.

"But Dorothy," said the King, "is not with this band of invaders; nor
is the Yellow Hen. As for Tititi-Hoochoo, he has no means of knowing
that we are afraid of eggs."

"You mustn't be too sure of that," Kaliko warned him. "Tititi-Hoochoo
knows a great many things, being a fairy, and his powers are far
superior to any we can boast."

Ruggedo shrugged impatiently and turned to the Hearer.

"Listen," said he, "and tell me if you hear any eggs coming through the
Tube."

The Long-Eared one listened and then shook his head. But Kaliko laughed
at the King.

"No one can hear an egg, Your Majesty," said he. "The only way to
discover the truth is to look through the Magic Spyglass."

"That's it!" cried the King. "Why didn't I think of it before? Look at
once, Kaliko!"

So Kaliko went to the Spyglass and by uttering a mumbled charm he
caused the other end of it to twist around, so that it pointed down the
opening of the Tube. Then he put his eye to the glass and was able to
gaze along all the turns and windings of the Magic Spyglass and then
deep into the Tube, to where our friends were at that time falling.

"Dear me!" he exclaimed. "Here comes a dragon."

"A big one?" asked Ruggedo.

"A monster. He has an electric light on the end of his tail, so I can
see him very plainly. And the other people are all riding upon his
back."

"How about the eggs?" inquired the King.

Kaliko looked again.

"I can see no eggs at all," said he; "but I imagine that the dragon is
as dangerous as eggs. Probably Tititi-Hoochoo has sent him here to
punish you for dropping those strangers into the Forbidden Tube. I
warned you not to do it, Your Majesty."

This news made the Nome King anxious. For a few minutes he paced up and
down, stroking his long beard and thinking with all his might. After
this he turned to Kaliko and said:

"All the harm a dragon can do is to scratch with his claws and bite
with his teeth."

"That is not all, but it's quite enough," returned Kaliko earnestly.
"On the other hand, no one can hurt a dragon, because he's the toughest
creature alive. One flop of his huge tail could smash a hundred nomes
to pancakes, and with teeth and claws he could tear even you or me into
small bits, so that it would be almost impossible to put us together
again. Once, a few hundred years ago, while wandering through some
deserted caverns, I came upon a small piece of a nome lying on the
rocky floor. I asked the piece of nome what had happened to it.
Fortunately the mouth was a part of this piece--the mouth and the left
eye--so it was able to tell me that a fierce dragon was the cause. It
had attacked the poor nome and scattered him in every direction, and as
there was no friend near to collect his pieces and put him together,
they had been separated for a great many years. So you see, Your
Majesty, it is not in good taste to sneer at a dragon."

The King had listened attentively to Kaliko. Said he:

"It will only be necessary to chain this dragon which Tititi-Hoochoo
has sent here, in order to prevent his reaching us with his claws and
teeth."

"He also breathes flames," Kaliko reminded him.

"My nomes are not afraid of fire, nor am I," said Ruggedo.

"Well, how about the Army of Oogaboo?"

"Sixteen cowardly officers and Tik-Tok! Why, I could defeat them
single-handed; but I won't try to. I'll summon my army of nomes to
drive the invaders out of my territory, and if we catch any of them I
intend to stick needles into them until they hop with pain."

"I hope you won't hurt any of the girls," said Kaliko.

"I'll hurt 'em all!" roared the angry Metal Monarch. "And that braying
Mule I'll make into hoof-soup, and feed it to my nomes, that it may add
to their strength."

"Why not be good to the strangers and release your prisoner, the Shaggy
Man's brother?" suggested Kaliko.

"Never!"

"It may save you a lot of annoyance. And you don't want the Ugly One."

"I don't want him; that's true. But I won't allow anybody to order me
around. I'm King of the Nomes and I'm the Metal Monarch, and I shall do
as I please and what I please and when I please!"

With this speech Ruggedo threw his sceptre at Kaliko's head, aiming it
so well that the Royal Chamberlain had to fall flat upon the floor in
order to escape it. But the Hearer did not see the sceptre coming and
it swept past his head so closely that it broke off the tip of one of
his long ears. He gave a dreadful yell that quite startled Ruggedo, and
the King was sorry for the accident because those long ears of the
Hearer were really valuable to him.

So the Nome King forgot to be angry with Kaliko and ordered his
Chamberlain to summon General Guph and the army of nomes and have them
properly armed. They were then to march to the mouth of the Tube, where
they could seize the travelers as soon as they appeared.




Chapter Fifteen

The Dragon Defies Danger


Although the journey through the Tube was longer, this time, than
before, it was so much more comfortable that none of our friends minded
it at all. They talked together most of the time and as they found the
dragon good-natured and fond of the sound of his own voice they soon
became well acquainted with him and accepted him as a companion.

"You see," said Shaggy, in his frank way, "Quox is on our side, and
therefore the dragon is a good fellow. If he happened to be an enemy,
instead of a friend, I am sure I should dislike him very much, for his
breath smells of brimstone, he is very conceited and he is so strong
and fierce that he would prove a dangerous foe."

"Yes, indeed," returned Quox, who had listened to this speech with
pleasure; "I suppose I am about as terrible as any living thing. I am
glad you find me conceited, for that proves I know my good qualities.
As for my breath smelling of brimstone, I really can't help it, and I
once met a man whose breath smelled of onions, which I consider far
worse."

"I don't," said Betsy; "I love onions.

"And I love brimstone," declared the dragon, "so don't let us quarrel
over one another's peculiarities."

Saying this, he breathed a long breath and shot a flame fifty feet from
his mouth. The brimstone made Betsy cough, but she remembered about the
onions and said nothing.

They had no idea how far they had gone through the center of the earth,
nor when to expect the trip to end. At one time the little girl
remarked:

"I wonder when we'll reach the bottom of this hole. And isn't it funny,
Shaggy Man, that what is the bottom to us now, was the top when we fell
the other way?"

"What puzzles me," said Files, "is that we are able to fall both ways."

"That," announced Tik-Tok, "is be-cause the world is round."

"Exactly," responded Shaggy. "The machinery in your head is in fine
working order, Tik-Tok. You know, Betsy, that there is such a thing as
the Attraction of Gravitation, which draws everything toward the center
of the earth. That is why we fall out of bed, and why everything clings
to the surface of the earth."

"Then why doesn't everyone go on down to the center of the earth?"
inquired the little girl.

"I was afraid you were going to ask me that," replied Shaggy in a sad
tone. "The reason, my dear, is that the earth is so solid that other
solid things can't get through it. But when there's a hole, as there is
in this case, we drop right down to the center of the world."

"Why don't we stop there?" asked Betsy.

"Because we go so fast that we acquire speed enough to carry us right
up to the other end."

"I don't understand that, and it makes my head ache to try to figure it
out," she said after some thought. "One thing draws us to the center
and another thing pushes us away from it. But--"

"Don't ask me why, please," interrupted the Shaggy Man. "If you can't
understand it, let it go at that."

"Do you understand it?" she inquired.

"All the magic isn't in fairyland," he said gravely. "There's lots of
magic in all Nature, and you may see it as well in the United States,
where you and I once lived, as you can here."

"I never did," she replied.

"Because you were so used to it all that you didn't realize it was
magic. Is anything more wonderful than to see a flower grow and
blossom, or to get light out of the electricity in the air? The cows
that manufacture milk for us must have machinery fully as remarkable as
that in Tik-Tok's copper body, and perhaps you've noticed that--"

And then, before Shaggy could finish his speech, the strong light of
day suddenly broke upon them, grew brighter, and completely enveloped
them. The dragon's claws no longer scraped against the metal Tube, for
he shot into the open air a hundred feet or more and sailed so far away
from the slanting hole that when he landed it was on the peak of a
mountain and just over the entrance to the many underground caverns of
the Nome King.

Some of the officers tumbled off their seats when Quox struck the
ground, but most of the dragon's passengers only felt a slight jar. All
were glad to be on solid earth again and they at once dismounted and
began to look about them. Queerly enough, as soon as they had left the
dragon, the seats that were strapped to the monster's back disappeared,
and this probably happened because there was no further use for them
and because Quox looked far more dignified in just his silver scales.
Of course he still wore the forty yards of ribbon around his neck, as
well as the great locket, but these only made him look "dressed up," as
Betsy remarked.

Now the army of nomes had gathered thickly around the mouth of the
Tube, in order to be ready to capture the band of invaders as soon as
they popped out. There were, indeed, hundreds of nomes assembled, and
they were led by Guph, their most famous General. But they did not
expect the dragon to fly so high, and he shot out of the Tube so
suddenly that it took them by surprise. When the nomes had rubbed the
astonishment out of their eyes and regained their wits, they discovered
the dragon quietly seated on the mountainside far above their heads,
while the other strangers were standing in a group and calmly looking
down upon them.

General Guph was very angry at the escape, which was no one's fault but
his own.

"Come down here and be captured!" he shouted, waving his sword at them.

"Come up here and capture us--if you dare!" replied Queen Ann, who was
winding up the clockwork of her Private Soldier, so he could fight more
briskly.

Guph's first answer was a roar of rage at the defiance; then he turned
and issued a command to his nomes. These were all armed with sharp
spears and with one accord they raised these spears and threw them
straight at their foes, so that they rushed through the air in a
perfect cloud of flying weapons.

Some damage might have been done had not the dragon quickly crawled
before the others, his body being so big that it shielded every one of
them, including Hank. The spears rattled against the silver scales of
Quox and then fell harmlessly to the ground. They were magic spears, of
course, and all straightway bounded back into the hands of those who
had thrown them, but even Guph could see that it was useless to repeat
the attack.

It was now Queen Ann's turn to attack, so the Generals yelled
"For--ward march!" and the Colonels and Majors and Captains repeated
the command and the valiant Army of Oogaboo, which seemed to be
composed mainly of Tik-Tok, marched forward in single column toward the
nomes, while Betsy and Polychrome cheered and Hank gave a loud
"Hee-haw!" and Shaggy shouted "Hooray!" and Queen Ann screamed: "At
'em, Tik-Tok--at 'em!"

The nomes did not await the Clockwork Man's attack but in a twinkling
disappeared into the underground caverns. They made a great mistake in
being so hasty, for Tik-Tok had not taken a dozen steps before he
stubbed his copper toe on a rock and fell flat to the ground, where he
cried: "Pick me up! Pick me up! Pick me up!" until Shaggy and Files ran
forward and raised him to his feet again.

The dragon chuckled softly to himself as he scratched his left ear with
his hind claw, but no one was paying much attention to Quox just then.

It was evident to Ann and her officers that there could be no fighting
unless the enemy was present, and in order to find the enemy they must
boldly enter the underground Kingdom of the nomes. So bold a step
demanded a council of war.

"Don't you think I'd better drop in on Ruggedo and obey the orders of
the Jinjin?" asked Quox.

"By no means!" returned Queen Ann. "We have already put the army of
nomes to flight and all that yet remains is to force our way into those
caverns, and conquer the Nome King and all his people."

"That seems to me something of a job," said the dragon, closing his
eyes sleepily. "But go ahead, if you like, and I'll wait here for you.
Don't be in any hurry on my account. To one who lives thousands of
years the delay of a few days means nothing at all, and I shall
probably sleep until the time comes for me to act."

Ann was provoked at this speech.

"You may as well go back to Tititi-Hoochoo now," she said, "for the
Nome King is as good as conquered already."

But Quox shook his head. "No," said he; "I'll wait."




Chapter Sixteen

The Naughty Nome


Shaggy Man had said nothing during the conversation between Queen Ann
and Quox, for the simple reason that he did not consider the matter
worth an argument. Safe within his pocket reposed the Love Magnet,
which had never failed to win every heart. The nomes, he knew, were not
like the heartless Roses and therefore could be won to his side as soon
as he exhibited the magic talisman.

Shaggy's chief anxiety had been to reach Ruggedo's Kingdom and now that
the entrance lay before him he was confident he would be able to rescue
his lost brother. Let Ann and the dragon quarrel as to who should
conquer the nomes, if they liked; Shaggy would let them try, and if
they failed he had the means of conquest in his own pocket.

But Ann was positive she could not fail, for she thought her Army could
do anything. So she called the officers together and told them how to
act, and she also instructed Tik-Tok what to do and what to say.

"Please do not shoot your gun except as a last resort," she added, "for
I do not wish to be cruel or to shed any blood--unless it is absolutely
necessary."

"All right," replied Tik-Tok; "but I do not think Rug-ge-do would bleed
if I filled him full of holes and put him in a ci-der press."

Then the officers fell in line, the four Generals abreast and then the
four Colonels and the four Majors and the four Captains. They drew
their glittering swords and commanded Tik-Tok to march, which he did.
Twice he fell down, being tripped by the rough rocks, but when he
struck the smooth path he got along better. Into the gloomy mouth of
the cavern entrance he stepped without hesitation, and after him
proudly pranced the officers and Queen Ann. The others held back a
little, waiting to see what would happen.

Of course the Nome King knew they were coming and was prepared to
receive them. Just within the rocky passage that led to the jeweled
throne-room was a deep pit, which was usually covered. Ruggedo had
ordered the cover removed and it now stood open, scarcely visible in
the gloom.

The pit was so large around that it nearly filled the passage and there
was barely room for one to walk around it by pressing close to the rock
walls. This Tik-Tok did, for his copper eyes saw the pit clearly and he
avoided it; but the officers marched straight into the hole and tumbled
in a heap on the bottom. An instant later Queen Ann also walked into
the pit, for she had her chin in the air and was careless where she
placed her feet. Then one of the nomes pulled a lever which replaced
the cover on the pit and made the officers of Oogaboo and their Queen
fast prisoners.

As for Tik-Tok, he kept straight on to the cavern where Ruggedo sat in
his throne and there he faced the Nome King and said:

"I here-by con-quer you in the name of Queen Ann So-forth of Oo-ga-boo,
whose Ar-my I am, and I de-clare that you are her pris-on-er!"

Ruggedo laughed at him.

"Where is this famous Queen?" he asked.

"She'll be here in a min-ute," said Tik-Tok. "Per-haps she stopped to
tie her shoe-string."

"Now, see here, Tik-Tok," began the Nome King, in a stern voice, "I've
had enough of this nonsense. Your Queen and her officers are all
prisoners, having fallen into my power, so perhaps you'll tell me what
you mean to do."

"My or-ders were to con-quer you," replied Tik-Tok, "and my
ma-chin-er-y has done the best it knows how to car-ry out those
or-ders."

Ruggedo pounded on his gong and Kaliko appeared, followed closely by
General Guph.

"Take this copper man into the shops and set him to work hammering
gold," commanded the King. "Being run by machinery he ought to be a
steady worker. He ought never to have been made, but since he exists I
shall hereafter put him to good use."

"If you try to cap-ture me," said Tik-Tok, "I shall fight."

"Don't do that!" exclaimed General Guph, earnestly, "for it will be
useless to resist and you might hurt some one."

But Tik-Tok raised his gun and took aim and not knowing what damage the
gun might do the nomes were afraid to face it.

While he was thus defying the Nome King and his high officials, Betsy
Bobbin rode calmly into the royal cavern, seated upon the back of Hank
the mule. The little girl had grown tired of waiting for "something to
happen" and so had come to see if Ruggedo had been conquered.

"Nails and nuggets!" roared the King; "how dare you bring that beast
here and enter my presence unannounced?"

"There wasn't anybody to announce me," replied Betsy. "I guess your
folks were all busy. Are you conquered yet?"

"No!" shouted the King, almost beside himself with rage.

"Then please give me something to eat, for I'm awful hungry," said the
girl. "You see, this conquering business is a good deal like waiting
for a circus parade; it takes a long time to get around and don't
amount to much anyhow."

The nomes were so much astonished at this speech that for a time they
could only glare at her silently, not finding words to reply. The King
finally recovered the use of his tongue and said:

"Earth-crawler! this insolence to my majesty shall be your
death-warrant. You are an ordinary mortal, and to stop a mortal from
living is so easy a thing to do that I will not keep you waiting half
so long as you did for my conquest."

"I'd rather you wouldn't stop me from living," remarked Betsy, getting
off Hank's back and standing beside him. "And it would be a pretty
cheap King who killed a visitor while she was hungry. If you'll give me
something to eat, I'll talk this killing business over with you
afterward; only, I warn you now that I don't approve of it, and never
will."

Her coolness and lack of fear impressed the Nome King, although he bore
an intense hatred toward all mortals.

"What do you wish to eat?" he asked gruffly.

"Oh, a ham-sandwich would do, or perhaps a couple of hard-boiled eggs--"

"Eggs!" shrieked the three nomes who were present, shuddering till
their teeth chattered.

"What's the matter?" asked Betsy wonderingly. "Are eggs as high here as
they are at home?"

"Guph," said the King in an agitated voice, turning to his General,
"let us destroy this rash mortal at once! Seize her and take her to the
Slimy Cave and lock her in."

Guph glanced at Tik-Tok, whose gun was still pointed, but just then
Kaliko stole softly behind the copper man and kicked his knee-joints so
that they suddenly bent forward and tumbled Tik-Tok to the floor, his
gun falling from his grasp.

Then Guph, seeing Tik-Tok helpless, made a grab at Betsy. At the same
time Hank's heels shot out and caught the General just where his belt
was buckled. He rose into the air swift as a cannon-ball, struck the
Nome King fairly and flattened his Majesty against the wall of rock on
the opposite side of the cavern. Together they fell to the floor in a
dazed and crumpled condition, seeing which Kaliko whispered to Betsy:

"Come with me--quick!--and I will save you."

She looked into Kaliko's face inquiringly and thought he seemed honest
and good-natured, so she decided to follow him. He led her and the mule
through several passages and into a small cavern very nicely and
comfortably furnished.

"This is my own room," said he, "but you are quite welcome to use it.
Wait here a minute and I'll get you something to eat."

When Kaliko returned he brought a tray containing some broiled
mushrooms, a loaf of mineral bread and some petroleum-butter. The
butter Betsy could not eat, but the bread was good and the mushrooms
delicious.

"Here's the door key," said Kaliko, "and you'd better lock yourself in."

"Won't you let Polychrome and the Rose Princess come here, too?" she
asked.

"I'll see. Where are they?"

"I don't know. I left them outside," said Betsy.

"Well, if you hear three raps on the door, open it," said Kaliko; "but
don't let anyone in unless they give the three raps."

"All right," promised Betsy, and when Kaliko left the cosy cavern she
closed and locked the door.

In the meantime Ann and her officers, finding themselves prisoners in
the pit, had shouted and screamed until they were tired out, but no one
had come to their assistance. It was very dark and damp in the pit and
they could not climb out because the walls were higher than their heads
and the cover was on. The Queen was first angry and then annoyed and
then discouraged; but the officers were only afraid. Every one of the
poor fellows heartily wished he was back in Oogaboo caring for his
orchard, and some were so unhappy that they began to reproach Ann for
causing them all this trouble and danger.

Finally the Queen sat down on the bottom of the pit and leaned her back
against the wall. By good luck her sharp elbow touched a secret spring
in the wall and a big flat rock swung inward. Ann fell over backward,
but the next instant she jumped up and cried to the others:

"A passage! A passage! Follow me, my brave men, and we may yet escape."

Then she began to crawl through the passage, which was as dark and dank
as the pit, and the officers followed her in single file. They crawled,
and they crawled, and they kept on crawling, for the passage was not
big enough to allow them to stand upright. It turned this way and
twisted that, sometimes like a corkscrew and sometimes zigzag, but
seldom ran for long in a straight line.

"It will never end--never!" moaned the officers, who were rubbing all
the skin off their knees on the rough rocks.

"It must end," retorted Ann courageously, "or it never would have been
made. We don't know where it will lead us to, but any place is better
than that loathsome pit."

So she crawled on, and the officers crawled on, and while they were
crawling through this awful underground passage Polychrome and Shaggy
and Files and the Rose Princess, who were standing outside the entrance
to Ruggedo's domains, were wondering what had become of them.




Chapter Seventeen

A Tragic Transformation


"Don't let us worry," said Shaggy to his companions, "for it may take
the Queen some time to conquer the Metal Monarch, as Tik-Tok has to do
everything in his slow, mechanical way."

"Do you suppose they are likely to fail?" asked the Rose Princess.

"I do, indeed," replied Shaggy. "This Nome King is really a powerful
fellow and has a legion of nomes to assist him, whereas our bold Queen
commands a Clockwork Man and a band of faint-hearted officers."

"She ought to have let Quox do the conquering," said Polychrome,
dancing lightly upon a point of rock and fluttering her beautiful
draperies. "But perhaps the dragon was wise to let her go first, for
when she fails to conquer Ruggedo she may become more modest in her
ambitions."

"Where is the dragon now?" inquired Ozga.

"Up there on the rocks," replied Files. "Look, my dear; you may see him
from here. He said he would take a little nap while we were mixing up
with Ruggedo, and he added that after we had gotten into trouble he
would wake up and conquer the Nome King in a jiffy, as his master the
Jinjin has ordered him to do."

"Quox means well," said Shaggy, "but I do not think we shall need his
services; for just as soon as I am satisfied that Queen Ann and her
army have failed to conquer Ruggedo, I shall enter the caverns and show
the King my Love Magnet. That he cannot resist; therefore the conquest
will be made with ease."

This speech of Shaggy Man's was overheard by the Long-Eared Hearer, who
was at that moment standing by Ruggedo's side. For when the King and
Guph had recovered from Hank's kick and had picked themselves up, their
first act was to turn Tik-Tok on his back and put a heavy diamond on
top of him, so that he could not get up again. Then they carefully put
his gun in a corner of the cavern and the King sent Guph to fetch the
Long-Eared Hearer.

The Hearer was still angry at Ruggedo for breaking his ear, but he
acknowledged the Nome King to be his master and was ready to obey his
commands. Therefore he repeated Shaggy's speech to the King, who at
once realized that his Kingdom was in grave danger. For Ruggedo knew of
the Love Magnet and its powers and was horrified at the thought that
Shaggy might show him the magic talisman and turn all the hatred in his
heart into love. Ruggedo was proud of his hatred and abhorred love of
any sort.


"Really," said he, "I'd rather he conquered and lose my wealth and my
Kingdom than gaze at that awful Love Magnet. What can I do to prevent
the Shaggy Man from taking it out of his pocket?"

Kaliko returned to the cavern in time to overhear this question, and
being a loyal nome and eager to serve his King, he answered by saying:

"If we can manage to bind the Shaggy Man's arms, tight to his body, he
could not get the Love Magnet out of his pocket."

"True!" cried the King in delight at this easy solution of the problem.
"Get at once a dozen nomes, with ropes, and place them in the passage
where they can seize and bind Shaggy as soon as he enters."

This Kaliko did, and meanwhile the watchers outside the entrance were
growing more and more uneasy about their friends.

"I don't worry so much about the Oogaboo people," said Polychrome, who
had grown sober with waiting, and perhaps a little nervous, "for they
could not be killed, even though Ruggedo might cause them much
suffering and perhaps destroy them utterly. But we should not have
allowed Betsy and Hank to go alone into the caverns. The little girl is
mortal and possesses no magic powers whatever, so if Ruggedo captures
her she will be wholly at his mercy."

"That is indeed true," replied Shaggy. "I wouldn't like to have
anything happen to dear little Betsy, so I believe I'll go in right
away and put an end to all this worry."

"We may as well go with you," asserted Files, "for by means of the Love
Magnet, you can soon bring the Nome King to reason."

So it was decided to wait no longer. Shaggy walked through the entrance
first, and after him came the others. They had no thought of danger to
themselves, and Shaggy, who was going along with his hands thrust into
his pockets, was much surprised when a rope shot out from the darkness
and twined around his body, pinning down his arms so securely that he
could not even withdraw his hands from the pockets. Then appeared
several grinning nomes, who speedily tied knots in the ropes and then
led the prisoner along the passage to the cavern. No attention was paid
to the others, but Files and the Princess followed on after Shaggy,
determined not to desert their friend and hoping that an opportunity
might arise to rescue him.

As for Polychrome, as soon as she saw that trouble had overtaken Shaggy
she turned and ran lightly back through the passage and out of the
entrance. Then she easily leaped from rock to rock until she paused
beside the great dragon, who lay fast asleep.

"Wake up, Quox!" she cried. "It is time for you to act."

But Quox did not wake up. He lay as one in a trance, absolutely
motionless, with his enormous eyes tight closed. The eyelids had big
silver scales on them, like all the rest of his body.

Polychrome might have thought Quox was dead had she not known that
dragons do not die easily or had she not observed his huge body
swelling as he breathed. She picked up a piece of rock and pounded
against his eyelids with it, saying:

"Wake up, Quox--wake up!" But he would not waken.

"Dear me, how unfortunate!" sighed the lovely Rainbow's Daughter. "I
wonder what is the best and surest way to waken a dragon. All our
friends may be captured and destroyed while this great beast lies
asleep."

She walked around Quox two or three times, trying to discover some
tender place on his body where a thump or a punch might be felt; but he
lay extended along the rocks with his chin flat upon the ground and his
legs drawn underneath his body, and all that one could see was his
thick sky-blue skin--thicker than that of a rhinoceros--and his silver
scales.

Then, despairing at last of wakening the beast, and worried over the
fate of her friends, Polychrome again ran down to the entrance and
hurried along the passage into the Nome King's cavern.

Here she found Ruggedo lolling in his throne and smoking a long pipe.
Beside him stood General Guph and Kaliko, and ranged before the King
were the Rose Princess, Files and the Shaggy Man. Tik-Tok still lay
upon the floor, weighted down by the big diamond.

Ruggedo was now in a more contented frame of mind. One by one he had
met the invaders and easily captured them. The dreaded Love Magnet was
indeed in Shaggy's pocket, only a few feet away from the King, but
Shaggy was powerless to show it and unless Ruggedo's eyes beheld the
talisman it could not affect him. As for Betsy Bobbin and her mule, he
believed Kaliko had placed them in the Slimy Cave, while Ann and her
officers he thought safely imprisoned in the pit. Ruggedo had no fear
of Files or Ozga, but to be on the safe side he had ordered golden
handcuffs placed upon their wrists. These did not cause them any great
annoyance but prevented them from making an attack, had they been
inclined to do so.

The Nome King, thinking himself wholly master of the situation, was
laughing and jeering at his prisoners when Polychrome, exquisitely
beautiful and dancing like a ray of light, entered the cavern.

"Oho!" cried the King; "a Rainbow under ground, eh?" and then he stared
hard at Polychrome, and still harder, and then he sat up and pulled the
wrinkles out of his robe and arranged his whiskers. "On my word," said
he, "you are a very captivating creature; moreover, I perceive you are
a fairy."

"I am Polychrome, the Rainbow's Daughter," she said proudly.

"Well," replied Ruggedo, "I like you. The others I hate. I hate
everybody--but you! Wouldn't you like to live always in this beautiful
cavern, Polychrome? See! the jewels that stud the walls have every tint
and color of your Rainbow--and they are not so elusive. I'll have fresh
dewdrops gathered for your feasting every day and you shall be Queen of
all my nomes and pull Kaliko's nose whenever you like."

"No, thank you," laughed Polychrome. "My home is in the sky, and I'm
only on a visit to this solid, sordid earth. But tell me, Ruggedo, why
my friends have been wound with cords and bound with chains?"

"They threatened me," answered Ruggedo. "The fools did not know how
powerful I am."

"Then, since they are now helpless, why not release them and send them
back to the earth's surface?"

"Because I hate 'em and mean to make 'em suffer for their invasion. But
I'll make a bargain with you, sweet Polly. Remain here and live with me
and I'll set all these people free. You shall be my daughter or my wife
or my aunt or grandmother--whichever you like--only stay here to
brighten my gloomy kingdom and make me happy!"

Polychrome looked at him wonderingly. Then she turned to Shaggy and
asked:

"Are you sure he hasn't seen the Love Magnet?"

"I'm positive," answered Shaggy. "But you seem to be something of a
Love Magnet yourself, Polychrome."

She laughed again and said to Ruggedo: "Not even to rescue my friends
would I live in your kingdom. Nor could I endure for long the society
of such a wicked monster as you."

"You forget," retorted the King, scowling darkly, "that you also are in
my power."

"Not so, Ruggedo. The Rainbow's Daughter is beyond the reach of your
spite or malice."

"Seize her!" suddenly shouted the King, and General Guph sprang forward
to obey. Polychrome stood quite still, yet when Guph attempted to
clutch her his hands met in air, and now the Rainbow's Daughter was in
another part of the room, as smiling and composed as before.

Several times Guph endeavored to capture her and Ruggedo even came down
from his throne to assist his General; but never could they lay hands
upon the lovely sky fairy, who flitted here and there with the
swiftness of light and constantly defied them with her merry laughter
as she evaded their efforts.

So after a time they abandoned the chase and Ruggedo returned to his
throne and wiped the perspiration from his face with a finely-woven
handkerchief of cloth-of-gold.

"Well," said Polychrome, "what do you intend to do now?"

"I'm going to have some fun, to repay me for all my bother," replied
the Nome King. Then he said to Kaliko: "Summon the executioners."

Kaliko at once withdrew and presently returned with a score of nomes,
all of whom were nearly as evil looking as their hated master. They
bore great golden pincers, and prods of silver, and clamps and chains
and various wicked-looking instruments, all made of precious metals and
set with diamonds and rubies.

"Now, Pang," said Ruggedo, addressing the leader of the executioners,
"fetch the Army of Oogaboo and their Queen from the pit and torture
them here in my presence--as well as in the presence of their friends.
It will be great sport."

"I hear Your Majesty, and I obey Your Majesty," answered Pang, and went
with his nomes into the passage. In a few minutes he returned and bowed
to Ruggedo.

"They're all gone," said he.

"Gone!" exclaimed the Nome King. "Gone where?"

"They left no address, Your Majesty; but they are not in the pit."

"Picks and puddles!" roared the King; "who took the cover off?"

"No one," said Pang. "The cover was there, but the prisoners were not
under it."

"In that case," snarled the King, trying to control his disappointment,
"go to the Slimy Cave and fetch hither the girl and the donkey. And
while we are torturing them Kaliko must take a hundred nomes and search
for the escaped prisoners--the Queen of Oogaboo and her officers. If he
does not find them, I will torture Kaliko."

Kaliko went away looking sad and disturbed, for he knew the King was
cruel and unjust enough to carry out this threat. Pang and the
executioners also went away, in another direction, but when they came
back Betsy Bobbin was not with them, nor was Hank.

"There is no one in the Slimy Cave, Your Majesty," reported Pang.

"Jumping jellycakes!" screamed the King. "Another escape? Are you sure
you found the right cave?"

"There is but one Slimy Cave, and there is no one in it," returned Pang
positively.

Ruggedo was beginning to be alarmed as well as angry. However, these
disappointments but made him the more vindictive and he cast an evil
look at the other prisoners and said:

"Never mind the girl and the donkey. Here are four, at least, who
cannot escape my vengeance. Let me see; I believe I'll change my mind
about Tik-Tok. Have the gold crucible heated to a white, seething heat,
and then we'll dump the copper man into it and melt him up."

"But, Your Majesty," protested Kaliko, who had returned to the room
after sending a hundred nomes to search for the Oogaboo people, "you
must remember that Tik-Tok is a very curious and interesting machine.
It would be a shame to deprive the world of such a clever contrivance."

"Say another word, and you'll go into the furnace with him!" roared the
King. "I'm getting tired of you, Kaliko, and the first thing you know
I'll turn you into a potato and make Saratoga-chips of you! The next to
consider," he added more mildly, "is the Shaggy Man. As he owns the
Love Magnet, I think I'll transform him into a dove, and then we can
practice shooting at him with Tik-Tok's gun. Now, this is a very
interesting ceremony and I beg you all to watch me closely and see that
I've nothing up my sleeve."

He came out of his throne to stand before the Shaggy Man, and then he
waved his hands, palms downward, in seven semicircles over his victim's
head, saying in a low but clear tone of voice the magic wugwa:

  "Adi, edi, idi, odi, udi, oo-i-oo!
  Idu, ido, idi, ide, ida, woo!"

The effect of this well-known sorcery was instantaneous. Instead of the
Shaggy Man, a pretty dove lay fluttering upon the floor, its wings
confined by tiny cords wound around them. Ruggedo gave an order to
Pang, who cut the cords with a pair of scissors. Being freed, the dove
quickly flew upward and alighted on the shoulder of the Rose Princess,
who stroked it tenderly.

"Very good! Very good!" cried Ruggedo, rubbing his hands gleefully
together. "One enemy is out of my way, and now for the others."

(Perhaps my readers should be warned not to attempt the above
transformation; for, although the exact magical formula has been
described, it is unlawful in all civilized countries for anyone to
transform a person into a dove by muttering the words Ruggedo used.
There were no laws to prevent the Nome King from performing this
transformation, but if it should be attempted in any other country, and
the magic worked, the magician would be severely punished.)

When Polychrome saw Shaggy Man transformed into a dove and realized
that Ruggedo was about do something as dreadful to the Princess and
Files, and that Tik-Tok would soon be melted in a crucible, she turned
and ran from the cavern, through the passage and back to the place
where Quox lay asleep.




Chapter Eighteen

A Clever Conquest


The great dragon still had his eyes closed and was even snoring in a
manner that resembled distant thunder; but Polychrome was now
desperate, because any further delay meant the destruction of her
friends. She seized the pearl necklace, to which was attached the great
locket, and jerked it with all her strength.

The result was encouraging. Quox stopped snoring and his eyelids
flickered. So Polychrome jerked again--and again--till slowly the great
lids raised and the dragon looked at her steadily. Said he, in a sleepy
tone:

"What's the matter, little Rainbow?"

"Come quick!" exclaimed Polychrome. "Ruggedo has captured all our
friends and is about to destroy them."

"Well, well," said Quox, "I suspected that would happen. Step a little
out of my path, my dear, and I'll make a rush for the Nome King's
cavern."

She fell back a few steps and Quox raised himself on his stout legs,
whisked his long tail and in an instant had slid down the rocks and
made a dive through the entrance.

Along the passage he swept, nearly filling it with his immense body,
and now he poked his head into the jeweled cavern of Ruggedo.

But the King had long since made arrangements to capture the dragon,
whenever he might appear. No sooner did Quox stick his head into the
room than a thick chain fell from above and encircled his neck. Then
the ends of the chain were drawn tight--for in an adjoining cavern a
thousand nomes were pulling on them--and so the dragon could advance no
further toward the King. He could not use his teeth or his claws and as
his body was still in the passage he had not even room to strike his
foes with his terrible tail.

Ruggedo was delighted with the success of his stratagem. He had just
transformed the Rose Princess into a fiddle and was about to transform
Files into a fiddle bow, when the dragon appeared to interrupt him. So
he called out:

"Welcome, my dear Quox, to my royal entertainment. Since you are here,
you shall witness some very neat magic, and after I have finished with
Files and Tik-Tok I mean to transform you into a tiny lizard--one of
the chameleon sort--and you shall live in my cavern and amuse me."

"Pardon me for contradicting Your Majesty," returned Quox in a quiet
voice, "but I don't believe you'll perform any more magic."

"Eh? Why not?" asked the King in surprise.

"There's a reason," said Quox. "Do you see this ribbon around my neck?"

"Yes; and I'm astonished that a dignified dragon should wear such a
silly thing."

"Do you see it plainly?" persisted the dragon, with a little chuckle of
amusement.

"I do," declared Ruggedo.

"Then you no longer possess any magical powers, and are as helpless as
a clam," asserted Quox. "My great master, Tititi-Hoochoo, the Jinjin,
enchanted this ribbon in such a way that whenever Your Majesty looked
upon it all knowledge of magic would desert you instantly, nor will any
magical formula you can remember ever perform your bidding."

"Pooh! I don't believe a word of it!" cried Ruggedo, half frightened,
nevertheless. Then he turned toward Files and tried to transform him
into a fiddle bow. But he could not remember the right words or the
right pass of the hands and after several trials he finally gave up the
attempt.

By this time the Nome King was so alarmed that he was secretly shaking
in his shoes.

"I told you not to anger Tititi-Hoochoo," grumbled Kaliko, "and now you
see the result of your disobedience."

Ruggedo promptly threw his sceptre at his Royal Chamberlain, who dodged
it with his usual cleverness, and then he said with an attempt to
swagger:

"Never mind; I don't need magic to enable me to destroy these invaders;
fire and the sword will do the business and I am still King of the
Nomes and lord and master of my Underground Kingdom!"

"Again I beg to differ with Your Majesty," said Quox. "The Great Jinjin
commands you to depart instantly from this Kingdom and seek the earth's
surface, where you will wander for all time to come, without a home or
country, without a friend or follower, and without any more riches than
you can carry with you in your pockets. The Great Jinjin is so generous
that he will allow you to fill your pockets with jewels or gold, but
you must take nothing more."

Ruggedo now stared at the dragon in amazement.

"Does Tititi-Hoochoo condemn me to such a fate?" he asked in a hoarse
voice.

"He does," said Quox.

"And just for throwing a few strangers down the Forbidden Tube?"

"Just for that," repeated Quox in a stern, gruff voice.

"Well, I won't do it. And your crazy old Jinjin can't make me do it,
either!" declared Ruggedo. "I intend to remain here, King of the Nomes,
until the end of the world, and I defy your Tititi-Hoochoo and all his
fairies--as well as his clumsy messenger, whom I have been obliged to
chain up!"

The dragon smiled again, but it was not the sort of smile that made
Ruggedo feel very happy. Instead, there was something so cold and
merciless in the dragon's expression that the condemned Nome King
trembled and was sick at heart.

There was little comfort for Ruggedo in the fact that the dragon was
now chained, although he had boasted of it. He glared at the immense
head of Quox as if fascinated and there was fear in the old King's eyes
as he watched his enemy's movements.

For the dragon was now moving; not abruptly, but as if he had something
to do and was about to do it. Very deliberately he raised one claw,
touched the catch of the great jeweled locket that was suspended around
his neck, and at once it opened wide.

Nothing much happened at first; half a dozen hen's eggs rolled out upon
the floor and then the locket closed with a sharp click. But the effect
upon the nomes of this simple thing was astounding. General Guph,
Kaliko, Pang and his band of executioners were all standing close to
the door that led to the vast series of underground caverns which
constituted the dominions of the nomes, and as soon as they saw the
eggs they raised a chorus of frantic screams and rushed through the
door, slamming it in Ruggedo's face and placing a heavy bronze bar
across it.

Ruggedo, dancing with terror and uttering loud cries, now leaped upon
the seat of his throne to escape the eggs, which had rolled steadily
toward him. Perhaps these eggs, sent by the wise and crafty
Tititi-Hoochoo, were in some way enchanted, for they all rolled
directly after Ruggedo and when they reached the throne where he had
taken refuge they began rolling up the legs to the seat.

This was too much for the King to bear. His horror of eggs was real and
absolute and he made a leap from the throne to the center of the room
and then ran to a far corner.

The eggs followed, rolling slowly but steadily in his direction.
Ruggedo threw his sceptre at them, and then his ruby crown, and then he
drew off his heavy golden sandals and hurled these at the advancing
eggs. But the eggs dodged every missile and continued to draw nearer.
The King stood trembling, his eyes staring in terror, until they were
but half a yard distant; then with an agile leap he jumped clear over
them and made a rush for the passage that led to the outer entrance.

Of course the dragon was in his way, being chained in the passage with
his head in the cavern, but when he saw the King making toward him he
crouched as low as he could and dropped his chin to the floor, leaving
a small space between his body and the roof of the passage.

Ruggedo did not hesitate an instant. Impelled by fear, he leaped to the
dragon's nose and then scrambled to his back, where he succeeded in
squeezing himself through the opening. After the head was passed there
was more room and he slid along the dragon's scales to his tail and
then ran as fast as his legs would carry him to the entrance. Not
pausing here, so great was his fright, the King dashed on down the
mountain path, but before he had gone very far he stumbled and fell.

When he picked himself up he observed that no one was following him,
and while he recovered his breath he happened to think of the decree of
the Jinjin--that he should be driven from his Kingdom and made a
wanderer on the face of the earth. Well, here he was, driven from his
cavern in truth; driven by those dreadful eggs; but he would go back
and defy them; he would not submit to losing his precious Kingdom and
his tyrannical powers, all because Tititi-Hoochoo had said he must.

So, although still afraid, Ruggedo nerved himself to creep back along
the path to the entrance, and when he arrived there he saw the six eggs
lying in a row just before the arched opening.

At first he paused a safe distance away to consider the case, for the
eggs were now motionless. While he was wondering what could be done, he
remembered there was a magical charm which would destroy eggs and
render them harmless to nomes. There were nine passes to be made and
six verses of incantation to be recited; but Ruggedo knew them all. Now
that he had ample time to be exact, he carefully went through the
entire ceremony.

But nothing happened. The eggs did not disappear, as he had expected;
so he repeated the charm a second time. When that also failed, he
remembered, with a moan of despair, that his magic power had been taken
away from him and in the future he could do no more than any common
mortal.

And there were the eggs, forever barring him from the Kingdom which he
had ruled so long with absolute sway! He threw rocks at them, but could
not hit a single egg. He raved and scolded and tore his hair and beard,
and danced in helpless passion, but that did nothing to avert the just
judgment of the Jinjin, which Ruggedo's own evil deeds had brought upon
him.

From this time on he was an outcast--a wanderer upon the face of the
earth--and he had even forgotten to fill his pockets with gold and
jewels before he fled from his former Kingdom!




Chapter Nineteen

King Kaliko


After the King had made good his escape Files said to the dragon, in a
sad voice:

"Alas! why did you not come before? Because you were sleeping instead
of conquering, the lovely Rose Princess has become a fiddle without a
bow, while poor Shaggy sits there a cooing dove!"

"Don't worry," replied Quox. "Tititi-Hoochoo knows his business, and I
have my orders from the Great Jinjin himself. Bring the fiddle here and
touch it lightly to my pink ribbon."

Files obeyed and at the moment of contact with the ribbon the Nome
King's charm was broken and the Rose Princess herself stood before them
as sweet and smiling as ever.

The dove, perched on the back of the throne, had seen and heard all
this, so without being told what to do it flew straight to the dragon
and alighted on the ribbon. Next instant Shaggy was himself again and
Quox said to him grumblingly:

"Please get off my left toe, Shaggy Man, and be more particular where
you step."

"I beg your pardon!" replied Shaggy, very glad to resume his natural
form. Then he ran to lift the heavy diamond off Tik-Tok's chest and to
assist the Clockwork Man to his feet.

"Ma-ny thanks!" said Tik-Tok. "Where is the wicked King who want-ed to
melt me in a cru-ci-ble?"

"He has gone, and gone for good," answered Polychrome, who had managed
to squeeze into the room beside the dragon and had witnessed the
occurrences with much interest. "But I wonder where Betsy Bobbin and
Hank can be, and if any harm has befallen them."

"We must search the cavern until we find them," declared Shaggy; but
when he went to the door leading to the other caverns he found it shut
and barred.

"I've a pretty strong push in my forehead," said Quox, "and I believe I
can break down that door, even though it's made of solid gold."

"But you are a prisoner, and the chains that hold you are fastened in
some other room, so that we cannot release you," Files said anxiously.

"Oh, never mind that," returned the dragon. "I have remained a prisoner
only because I wished to be one," and with this he stepped forward and
burst the stout chains as easily as if they had been threads.

But when he tried to push in the heavy metal door, even his mighty
strength failed, and after several attempts he gave it up and squatted
himself in a corner to think of a better way.

"I'll o-pen the door," asserted Tik-Tok, and going to the King's big
gong he pounded upon it until the noise was almost deafening.

Kaliko, in the next cavern, was wondering what had happened to Ruggedo
and if he had escaped the eggs and outwitted the dragon. But when he
heard the sound of the gong, which had so often called him into the
King's presence, he decided that Ruggedo had been victorious; so he
took away the bar, threw open the door and entered the royal cavern.

Great was his astonishment to find the King gone and the enchantments
removed from the Princess and Shaggy. But the eggs were also gone and
so Kaliko advanced to the dragon, whom he knew to be Tititi-Hoochoo's
messenger, and bowed humbly before the beast.

"What is your will?" he inquired.

"Where is Betsy?" demanded the dragon.

"Safe in my own private room," said Kaliko.

"Go and get her!" commanded Quox.

So Kaliko went to Betsy's room and gave three raps upon the door. The
little girl had been asleep, but she heard the raps and opened the door.

"You may come out now," said Kaliko. "The King has fled in disgrace and
your friends are asking for you."

So Betsy and Hank returned with the Royal Chamberlain to the throne
cavern, where she was received with great joy by her friends. They told
her what had happened to Ruggedo and she told them how kind Kaliko had
been to her. Quox did not have much to say until the conversation was
ended, but then he turned to Kaliko and asked:

"Do you suppose you could rule your nomes better than Ruggedo has done?"

"Me?" stammered the Chamberlain, greatly surprised by the question.
"Well, I couldn't be a worse King, I'm sure."

"Would the nomes obey you?" inquired the dragon.

"Of course," said Kaliko. "They like me better than ever they did
Ruggedo."

"Then hereafter you shall be the Metal Monarch, King of the Nomes, and
Tititi-Hoochoo expects you to rule your Kingdom wisely and well," said
Quox.

"Hooray!" cried Betsy; "I'm glad of that. King Kaliko, I salute Your
Majesty and wish you joy in your gloomy old Kingdom!"

"We all wish him joy," said Polychrome; and then the others made haste
to congratulate the new King.

"Will you release my dear brother?" asked Shaggy.

"The Ugly One? Very willingly," replied Kaliko. "I begged Ruggedo long
ago to send him away, but he would not do so. I also offered to help
your brother to escape, but he would not go."

"He's so conscientious!" said Shaggy, highly pleased. "All of our
family have noble natures. But is my dear brother well?" he added
anxiously.

"He eats and sleeps very steadily," replied the new King.

"I hope he doesn't work too hard," said Shaggy.

"He doesn't work at all. In fact, there is nothing he can do in these
dominions as well as our nomes, whose numbers are so great that it
worries us to keep them all busy. So your brother has only to amuse
himself."

"Why, it's more like visiting, than being a prisoner," asserted Betsy.

"Not exactly," returned Kaliko. "A prisoner cannot go where or when he
pleases, and is not his own master."

"Where is my brother now?" inquired Shaggy.

"In the Metal Forest."

"Where is that?"

"The Metal Forest is in the Great Domed Cavern, the largest in all our
dominions," replied Kaliko. "It is almost like being out of doors, it
is so big, and Ruggedo made the wonderful forest to amuse himself, as
well as to tire out his hard-working nomes. All the trees are gold and
silver and the ground is strewn with precious stones, so it is a sort
of treasury."

"Let us go there at once and rescue my dear brother," pleaded Shaggy
earnestly.

Kaliko hesitated.

"I don't believe I can find the way," said he. "Ruggedo made three
secret passages to the Metal Forest, but he changes the location of
these passages every week, so that no one can get to the Metal Forest
without his permission. However, if we look sharp, we may be able to
discover one of these secret ways."

"That reminds me to ask what has become of Queen Ann and the Officers
of Oogaboo," said Files.

"I'm sure I can't say," replied Kaliko.

"Do you suppose Ruggedo destroyed them?"

"Oh, no; I'm quite sure he didn't. They fell into the big pit in the
passage, and we put the cover on to keep them there; but when the
executioners went to look for them they had all disappeared from the
pit and we could find no trace of them."

"That's funny," remarked Betsy thoughtfully. "I don't believe Ann knew
any magic, or she'd have worked it before. But to disappear like that
seems like magic; now, doesn't it?"

They agreed that it did, but no one could explain the mystery.

"However," said Shaggy, "they are gone, that is certain, so we cannot
help them or be helped by them. And the important thing just now is to
rescue my dear brother from captivity."

"Why do they call him the Ugly One?" asked Betsy.

"I do not know," confessed Shaggy. "I can not remember his looks very
well, it is so long since I have seen him; but all of our family are
noted for their handsome faces."

Betsy laughed and Shaggy seemed rather hurt; but Polychrome relieved
his embarrassment by saying softly: "One can be ugly in looks, but
lovely in disposition."

"Our first task," said Shaggy, a little comforted by this remark, "is
to find one of those secret passages to the Metal Forest."

"True," agreed Kaliko. "So I think I will assemble the chief nomes of
my kingdom in this throne room and tell them that I am their new King.
Then I can ask them to assist us in searching for the secret passages.

"That's a good idea," said the dragon, who seemed to be getting sleepy
again.

Kaliko went to the big gong and pounded on it just as Ruggedo used to
do; but no one answered the summons.

"Of course not," said he, jumping up from the throne, where he had
seated himself. "That is my call, and I am still the Royal Chamberlain,
and will be until I appoint another in my place."

So he ran out of the room and found Guph and told him to answer the
summons of the King's gong. Having returned to the royal cavern, Kaliko
first pounded the gong and then sat in the throne, wearing Ruggedo's
discarded ruby crown and holding in his hand the sceptre which Ruggedo
had so often thrown at his head.

When Guph entered he was amazed.

"Better get out of that throne before old Ruggedo comes back," he said
warningly.

"He isn't coming back, and I am now the King of the Nomes, in his
stead," announced Kaliko.

"All of which is quite true," asserted the dragon, and all of those who
stood around the throne bowed respectfully to the new King.

Seeing this, Guph also bowed, for he was glad to be rid of such a hard
master as Ruggedo. Then Kaliko, in quite a kingly way, informed Guph
that he was appointed the Royal Chamberlain, and promised not to throw
the sceptre at his head unless he deserved it.

All this being pleasantly arranged, the new Chamberlain went away to
tell the news to all the nomes of the underground Kingdom, every one of
whom would be delighted with the change in Kings.




Chapter Twenty

Quox Quietly Quits


When the chief nomes assembled before their new King they joyfully
saluted him and promised to obey his commands. But, when Kaliko
questioned them, none knew the way to the Metal Forest, although all
had assisted in its making. So the King instructed them to search
carefully for one of the passages and to bring him the news as soon as
they had found it.

Meantime Quox had managed to back out of the rocky corridor and so
regain the open air and his old station on the mountain-side, and there
he lay upon the rocks, sound asleep, until the next day. The others of
the party were all given as good rooms as the caverns of the nomes
afforded, for King Kaliko felt that he was indebted to them for his
promotion and was anxious to be as hospitable as he could.

Much wonderment had been caused by the absolute disappearance of the
sixteen officers of Oogaboo and their Queen. Not a nome had seen them,
nor were they discovered during the search for the passages leading to
the Metal Forest. Perhaps no one was unhappy over their loss, but all
were curious to know what had become of them.

On the next day, when our friends went to visit the dragon, Quox said
to them: "I must now bid you good-bye, for my mission here is finished
and I must depart for the other side of the world, where I belong."

"Will you go through the Tube again?" asked Betsy.

"To be sure. But it will be a lonely trip this time, with no one to
talk to, and I cannot invite any of you to go with me. Therefore, as
soon as I slide into the hole I shall go to sleep, and when I pop out
at the other end I will wake up at home."

They thanked the dragon for befriending them and wished him a pleasant
journey. Also they sent their thanks to the great Jinjin, whose just
condemnation of Ruggedo had served their interests so well. Then Quox
yawned and stretched himself and ambled over to the Tube, into which he
slid headforemost and disappeared.

They really felt as if they had lost a friend, for the dragon had been
both kind and sociable during their brief acquaintance with him; but
they knew it was his duty to return to his own country. So they went
back to the caverns to renew the search for the hidden passages that
led to the forest, but for three days all efforts to find them proved
in vain.

It was Polychrome's custom to go every day to the mountain and watch
for her father, the Rainbow, for she was growing tired with wandering
upon the earth and longed to rejoin her sisters in their sky palaces.
And on the third day, while she sat motionless upon a point of rock,
whom should she see slyly creeping up the mountain but Ruggedo!

The former King looked very forlorn. His clothes were soiled and torn
and he had no sandals upon his feet or hat upon his head. Having left
his crown and sceptre behind when he fled, the old nome no longer
seemed kingly, but more like a beggerman.

Several times had Ruggedo crept up to the mouth of the caverns, only to
find the six eggs still on guard. He knew quite well that he must
accept his fate and become a homeless wanderer, but his chief regret
now was that he had neglected to fill his pockets with gold and jewels.
He was aware that a wanderer with wealth at his command would fare much
better than one who was a pauper, so he still loitered around the
caverns wherein he knew so much treasure was stored, hoping for a
chance to fill his pockets.

That was how he came to recollect the Metal Forest.

"Aha!" said he to himself, "I alone know the way to that Forest, and
once there I can fill my pockets with the finest jewels in all the
world."

He glanced at his pockets and was grieved to find them so small.
Perhaps they might be enlarged, so that they would hold more. He knew
of a poor woman who lived in a cottage at the foot of the mountain, so
he went to her and begged her to sew pockets all over his robe, paying
her with the gift of a diamond ring which he had worn upon his finger.
The woman was delighted to possess so valuable a ring and she sewed as
many pockets on Ruggedo's robe as she possibly could.

Then he returned up the mountain and, after gazing cautiously around to
make sure he was not observed, he touched a spring in a rock and it
swung slowly backward, disclosing a broad passageway. This he entered,
swinging the rock in place behind him.

However, Ruggedo had failed to look as carefully as he might have done,
for Polychrome was seated only a little distance off and her clear eyes
marked exactly the manner in which Ruggedo had released the hidden
spring. So she rose and hurried into the cavern, where she told Kaliko
and her friends of her discovery.

"I've no doubt that that is a way to the Metal Forest," exclaimed
Shaggy. "Come, let us follow Ruggedo at once and rescue my poor
brother!"

They agreed to this and King Kaliko called together a band of nomes to
assist them by carrying torches to light their way.

"The Metal Forest has a brilliant light of its own," said he, "but the
passage across the valley is likely to be dark."

Polychrome easily found the rock and touched the spring, so in less
than an hour after Ruggedo had entered they were all in the passage and
following swiftly after the former King.

"He means to rob the Forest, I'm sure," said Kaliko; "but he will find
he is no longer of any account in this Kingdom and I will have my nomes
throw him out."

"Then please throw him as hard as you can," said Betsy, "for he
deserves it. I don't mind an honest, out-an'-out enemy, who fights
square; but changing girls into fiddles and ordering 'em put into Slimy
Caves is mean and tricky, and Ruggedo doesn't deserve any sympathy. But
you'll have to let him take as much treasure as he can get in his
pockets, Kaliko."

"Yes, the Jinjin said so; but we won't miss it much. There is more
treasure in the Metal Forest than a million nomes could carry in their
pockets."

It was not difficult to walk through this passage, especially when the
torches lighted the way, so they made good progress. But it proved to
be a long distance and Betsy had tired herself with walking and was
seated upon the back of the mule when the passage made a sharp turn and
a wonderful and glorious light burst upon them. The next moment they
were all standing upon the edge of the marvelous Metal Forest.

It lay under another mountain and occupied a great domed cavern, the
roof of which was higher than a church steeple. In this space the
industrious nomes had built, during many years of labor, the most
beautiful forest in the world. The trees--trunks, branches and
leaves--were all of solid gold, while the bushes and underbrush were
formed of filigree silver, virgin pure. The trees towered as high as
natural live oaks do and were of exquisite workmanship.

On the ground were thickly strewn precious gems of every hue and size,
while here and there among the trees were paths pebbled with cut
diamonds of the clearest water. Taken all together, more treasure was
gathered in this Metal Forest than is contained in all the rest of the
world--if we except the land of Oz, where perhaps its value is equalled
in the famous Emerald City.

Our friends were so amazed at the sight that for a while they stood
gazing in silent wonder. Then Shaggy exclaimed.

"My brother! My dear lost brother! Is he indeed a prisoner in this
place?"

"Yes," replied Kaliko. "The Ugly One has been here for two or three
years, to my positive knowledge."

"But what could he find to eat?" inquired Betsy. "It's an awfully swell
place to live in, but one can't breakfast on rubies and di'monds, or
even gold."

"One doesn't need to, my dear," Kaliko assured her. "The Metal Forest
does not fill all of this great cavern, by any means. Beyond these gold
and silver trees are other trees of the real sort, which bear foods
very nice to eat. Let us walk in that direction, for I am quite sure we
will find Shaggy's brother in that part of the cavern, rather than in
this."

So they began to tramp over the diamond-pebbled paths, and at every
step they were more and more bewildered by the wondrous beauty of the
golden trees with their glittering foliage.

Suddenly they heard a scream. Jewels scattered in every direction as
some one hidden among the bushes scampered away before them. Then a
loud voice cried: "Halt!" and there was the sound of a struggle.




Chapter Twenty-One

A Bashful Brother


With fast beating hearts they all rushed forward and, beyond a group of
stately metal trees, came full upon a most astonishing scene.

There was Ruggedo in the hands of the officers of Oogaboo, a dozen of
whom were clinging to the old nome and holding him fast in spite of his
efforts to escape. There also was Queen Ann, looking grimly upon the
scene of strife; but when she observed her former companions
approaching she turned away in a shamefaced manner.

For Ann and her officers were indeed a sight to behold. Her Majesty's
clothing, once so rich and gorgeous, was now worn and torn into shreds
by her long crawl through the tunnel, which, by the way, had led her
directly into the Metal Forest. It was, indeed, one of the three secret
passages, and by far the most difficult of the three. Ann had not only
torn her pretty skirt and jacket, but her crown had become bent and
battered and even her shoes were so cut and slashed that they were
ready to fall from her feet.

The officers had fared somewhat worse than their leader, for holes were
worn in the knees of their trousers, while sharp points of rock in the
roof and sides of the tunnel had made rags of every inch of their once
brilliant uniforms. A more tattered and woeful army never came out of a
battle, than these harmless victims of the rocky passage. But it had
seemed their only means of escape from the cruel Nome King; so they had
crawled on, regardless of their sufferings.

When they reached the Metal Forest their eyes beheld more plunder than
they had ever dreamed of; yet they were prisoners in this huge dome and
could not escape with the riches heaped about them. Perhaps a more
unhappy and homesick lot of "conquerors" never existed than this band
from Oogaboo.

After several days of wandering in their marvelous prison they were
frightened by the discovery that Ruggedo had come among them. Rendered
desperate by their sad condition, the officers exhibited courage for
the first time since they left home and, ignorant of the fact that
Ruggedo was no longer King of the nomes, they threw themselves upon him
and had just succeeded in capturing him when their fellow adventurers
reached the spot.

"Goodness gracious!" cried Betsy. "What has happened to you all?"

Ann came forward to greet them, sorrowful and indignant.

"We were obliged to escape from the pit through a small tunnel, which
was lined with sharp and jagged rocks," said she, "and not only was our
clothing torn to rags but our flesh is so bruised and sore that we are
stiff and lame in every joint. To add to our troubles we find we are
still prisoners; but now that we have succeeded in capturing the wicked
Metal Monarch we shall force him to grant us our liberty."

"Ruggedo is no longer Metal Monarch, or King of the nomes," Files
informed her. "He has been deposed and cast out of his kingdom by Quox;
but here is the new King, whose name is Kaliko, and I am pleased to
assure Your Majesty that he is our friend."

"Glad to meet Your Majesty, I'm sure," said Kaliko, bowing as
courteously as if the Queen still wore splendid raiment.

The officers, having heard this explanation, now set Ruggedo free; but,
as he had no place to go, he stood by and faced his former servant, who
was now King in his place, in a humble and pleading manner.

"What are you doing here?" asked Kaliko sternly.

"Why, I was promised as much treasure as I could carry in my pockets,"
replied Ruggedo; "so I came here to get it, not wishing to disturb Your
Majesty."

"You were commanded to leave the country of the nomes forever!"
declared Kaliko.

"I know; and I'll go as soon as I have filled my pockets," said
Ruggedo, meekly.

"Then fill them, and be gone," returned the new King.

Ruggedo obeyed. Stooping down, he began gathering up jewels by the
handful and stuffing them into his many pockets. They were heavy
things, these diamonds and rubies and emeralds and amethysts and the
like, so before long Ruggedo was staggering with the weight he bore,
while the pockets were not yet filled. When he could no longer stoop
over without falling, Betsy and Polychrome and the Rose Princess came
to his assistance, picking up the finest gems and tucking them into his
pockets.

At last these were all filled and Ruggedo presented a comical sight,
for surely no man ever before had so many pockets, or any at all filled
with such a choice collection of precious stones. He neglected to thank
the young ladies for their kindness, but gave them a surly nod of
farewell and staggered down the path by the way he had come. They let
him depart in silence, for with all he had taken, the masses of jewels
upon the ground seemed scarcely to have been disturbed, so numerous
were they. Also they hoped they had seen the last of the degraded King.

"I'm awful glad he's gone," said Betsy, sighing deeply. "If he doesn't
get reckless and spend his wealth foolishly, he's got enough to start a
bank when he gets to Oklahoma."

"But my brother--my dear brother! Where is he?" inquired Shaggy
anxiously. "Have you seen him, Queen Ann?"

"What does your brother look like?" asked the Queen.

Shaggy hesitated to reply, but Betsy said: "He's called the Ugly One.
Perhaps you'll know him by that."

"The only person we have seen in this cavern," said Ann, "has run away
from us whenever we approached him. He hides over yonder, among the
trees that are not gold, and we have never been able to catch sight of
his face. So I can not tell whether he is ugly or not."

"That must be my dear brother!" exclaimed Shaggy.

"Yes, it must be," assented Kaliko. "No one else inhabits this splendid
dome, so there can be no mistake."

"But why does he hide among those green trees, instead of enjoying all
these glittery golden ones?" asked Betsy.

"Because he finds food among the natural trees," replied Kaliko, "and I
remember that he has built a little house there, to sleep in. As for
these glittery golden trees, I will admit they are very pretty at first
sight. One cannot fail to admire them, as well as the rich jewels
scattered beneath them; but if one has to look at them always, they
become pretty tame."

"I believe that is true," declared Shaggy. "My dear brother is very
wise to prefer real trees to the imitation ones. But come; let us go
there and find him."

Shaggy started for the green grove at once, and the others followed
him, being curious to witness the final rescue of his long-sought,
long-lost brother.

Not far from the edge of the grove they came upon a small hut, cleverly
made of twigs and golden branches woven together. As they approached
the place they caught a glimpse of a form that darted into the hut and
slammed the door tight shut after him.

Shaggy Man ran to the door and cried aloud:

"Brother! Brother!"

"Who calls," demanded a sad, hollow voice from within.

"It is Shaggy--your own loving brother--who has been searching for you
a long time and has now come to rescue you."

"Too late!" replied the gloomy voice. "No one can rescue me now."

"Oh, but you are mistaken about that," said Shaggy. "There is a new
King of the nomes, named Kaliko, in Ruggedo's place, and he has
promised you shall go free."

"Free! I dare not go free!" said the Ugly One, in a voice of despair.

"Why not, Brother?" asked Shaggy, anxiously.

"Do you know what they have done to me?" came the answer through the
closed door.

"No. Tell me, Brother, what have they done?"

"When Ruggedo first captured me I was very handsome. Don't you
remember, Shaggy?"

"Not very well, Brother; you were so young when I left home. But I
remember that mother thought you were beautiful."

"She was right! I am sure she was right," wailed the prisoner. "But
Ruggedo wanted to injure me--to make me ugly in the eyes of all the
world--so he performed a wicked enchantment. I went to bed
beautiful--or you might say handsome--to be very modest I will merely
claim that I was good-looking--and I wakened the next morning the
homeliest man in all the world! I am so repulsive that when I look in a
mirror I frighten myself."

"Poor Brother!" said Shaggy softly, and all the others were silent from
sympathy.

"I was so ashamed of my looks," continued the voice of Shaggy's
brother, "that I tried to hide; but the cruel King Ruggedo forced me to
appear before all the legion of nomes, to whom he said: 'Behold the
Ugly One!' But when the nomes saw my face they all fell to laughing and
jeering, which prevented them from working at their tasks. Seeing this,
Ruggedo became angry and pushed me into a tunnel, closing the rock
entrance so that I could not get out. I followed the length of the
tunnel until I reached this huge dome, where the marvelous Metal Forest
stands, and here I have remained ever since."

"Poor Brother!" repeated Shaggy. "But I beg you now to come forth and
face us, who are your friends. None here will laugh or jeer, however
unhandsome you may be."

"No, indeed," they all added pleadingly.

But the Ugly One refused the invitation.

"I cannot," said he; "indeed, I cannot face strangers, ugly as I am."

Shaggy Man turned to the group surrounding him.

"What shall I do?" he asked in sorrowful tones. "I cannot leave my dear
brother here, and he refuses to come out of that house and face us."

"I'll tell you," replied Betsy. "Let him put on a mask."

"The very idea I was seeking!" exclaimed Shaggy joyfully; and then he
called out: "Brother, put a mask over your face, and then none of us
can see what your features are like."

"I have no mask," answered the Ugly One.

"Look here," said Betsy; "he can use my handkerchief."

Shaggy looked at the little square of cloth and shook his head.

"It isn't big enough," he objected; "I'm sure it isn't big enough to
hide a man's face. But he can use mine."

Saying this he took from his pocket his own handkerchief and went to
the door of the hut.

"Here, my Brother," he called, "take this handkerchief and make a mask
of it. I will also pass you my knife, so that you may cut holes for the
eyes, and then you must tie it over your face."

The door slowly opened, just far enough for the Ugly One to thrust out
his hand and take the handkerchief and the knife. Then it closed again.

"Don't forget a hole for your nose," cried Betsy. "You must breathe,
you know."

For a time there was silence. Queen Ann and her army sat down upon the
ground to rest. Betsy sat on Hank's back. Polychrome danced lightly up
and down the jeweled paths while Files and the Princess wandered
through the groves arm in arm. Tik-Tok, who never tired, stood
motionless.

By and by a noise sounded from within the hut.

"Are you ready?" asked Shaggy.

"Yes, Brother," came the reply and the door was thrown open to allow
the Ugly One to step forth.

Betsy might have laughed aloud had she not remembered how sensitive to
ridicule Shaggy's brother was, for the handkerchief with which he had
masked his features was a red one covered with big white polka dots. In
this two holes had been cut--in front of the eyes--while two smaller
ones before the nostrils allowed the man to breathe freely. The cloth
was then tightly drawn over the Ugly One's face and knotted at the back
of his neck.

He was dressed in clothes that had once been good, but now were sadly
worn and frayed. His silk stockings had holes in them, and his shoes
were stub-toed and needed blackening. "But what can you expect,"
whispered Betsy, "when the poor man has been a prisoner for so many
years?"

Shaggy had darted forward, and embraced his newly found brother with
both his arms. The brother also embraced Shaggy, who then led him
forward and introduced him to all the assembled company.

"This is the new Nome King," he said when he came to Kaliko. "He is our
friend, and has granted you your freedom."

"That is a kindly deed," replied Ugly in a sad voice, "but I dread to
go back to the world in this direful condition. Unless I remain forever
masked, my dreadful face would curdle all the milk and stop all the
clocks."

"Can't the enchantment be broken in some way?" inquired Betsy.

Shaggy looked anxiously at Kaliko, who shook his head.

"I am sure I can't break the enchantment," he said. "Ruggedo was fond
of magic, and learned a good many enchantments that we nomes know
nothing of."

"Perhaps Ruggedo himself might break his own enchantment," suggested
Ann; "but unfortunately we have allowed the old King to escape."

"Never mind, my dear Brother," said Shaggy consolingly; "I am very
happy to have found you again, although I may never see your face. So
let us make the most of this joyful reunion."

The Ugly One was affected to tears by this tender speech, and the tears
began to wet the red handkerchief; so Shaggy gently wiped them away
with his coat sleeve.




Chapter Twenty-Two

Kindly Kisses


"Won't you be dreadful sorry to leave this lovely place?" Betsy asked
the Ugly One.

"No, indeed," said he. "Jewels and gold are cold and heartless things,
and I am sure I would presently have died of loneliness had I not found
the natural forest at the edge of the artificial one. Anyhow, without
these real trees I should soon have starved to death."

Betsy looked around at the quaint trees.

"I don't just understand that," she admitted. "What could you find to
eat here."

"The best food in the world," Ugly answered. "Do you see that grove at
your left?" he added, pointing it out; "well, such trees as those do
not grow in your country, or in any other place but this cavern. I have
named them 'Hotel Trees,' because they bear a certain kind of table
d'hote fruit called 'Three-Course Nuts.'"

"That's funny!" said Betsy. "What are the 'Three-Course Nuts' like?"

"Something like cocoanuts, to look at," explained the Ugly One. "All
you have to do is to pick one of them and then sit down and eat your
dinner. You first unscrew the top part and find a cupfull of good soup.
After you've eaten that, you unscrew the middle part and find a hollow
filled with meat and potatoes, vegetables and a fine salad. Eat that,
and unscrew the next section, and you come to the dessert in the bottom
of the nut. That is, pie and cake, cheese and crackers, and nuts and
raisins. The Three-Course Nuts are not all exactly alike in flavor or
in contents, but they are all good and in each one may be found a
complete three-course dinner."

"But how about breakfasts?" inquired Betsy.

"Why, there are Breakfast Trees for that, which grow over there at the
right. They bear nuts, like the others, only the nuts contain coffee or
chocolate, instead of soup; oatmeal instead of meat-and-potatoes, and
fruits instead of dessert. Sad as has been my life in this wonderful
prison, I must admit that no one could live more luxuriously in the
best hotel in the world than I have lived here; but I will be glad to
get into the open air again and see the good old sun and the silvery
moon and the soft green grass and the flowers that are kissed by the
morning dew. Ah, how much more lovely are those blessed things than the
glitter of gems or the cold gleam of gold!"

"Of course," said Betsy. "I once knew a little boy who wanted to catch
the measles, because all the little boys in his neighborhood but him
had 'em, and he was really unhappy 'cause he couldn't catch 'em, try as
he would. So I'm pretty certain that the things we want, and can't
have, are not good for us. Isn't that true, Shaggy?"

"Not always, my dear," he gravely replied. "If we didn't want anything,
we would never get anything, good or bad. I think our longings are
natural, and if we act as nature prompts us we can't go far wrong."

"For my part," said Queen Ann, "I think the world would be a dreary
place without the gold and jewels."

"All things are good in their way," said Shaggy; "but we may have too
much of any good thing. And I have noticed that the value of anything
depends upon how scarce it is, and how difficult it is to obtain."

"Pardon me for interrupting you," said King Kaliko, coming to their
side, "but now that we have rescued Shaggy's brother I would like to
return to my royal cavern. Being the King of the Nomes, it is my duty
to look after my restless subjects and see that they behave themselves."

So they all turned and began walking through the Metal Forest to the
other side of the great domed cave, where they had first entered it.
Shaggy and his brother walked side by side and both seemed rejoiced
that they were together after their long separation. Betsy didn't dare
look at the polka dot handkerchief, for fear she would laugh aloud; so
she walked behind the two brothers and led Hank by holding fast to his
left ear.

When at last they reached the place where the passage led to the outer
world, Queen Ann said, in a hesitating way that was unusual with her:

"I have not conquered this Nome Country, nor do I expect to do so; but
I would like to gather a few of these pretty jewels before I leave this
place."

"Help yourself, ma'am," said King Kaliko, and at once the officers of
the Army took advantage of his royal permission and began filling their
pockets, while Ann tied a lot of diamonds in a big handkerchief.

This accomplished, they all entered the passage, the nomes going first
to light the way with their torches. They had not proceeded far when
Betsy exclaimed:

"Why, there are jewels here, too!"

All eyes were turned upon the ground and they found a regular trail of
jewels strewn along the rock floor.

"This is queer!" said Kaliko, much surprised. "I must send some of my
nomes to gather up these gems and replace them in the Metal Forest,
where they belong. I wonder how they came to be here?"

All the way along the passage they found this trail of jewels, but when
they neared the end the mystery was explained. For there, squatted upon
the floor with his back to the rock wall, sat old Ruggedo, puffing and
blowing as if he was all tired out. Then they realized it was he who
had scattered the jewels, from his many pockets, which one by one had
burst with the weight of their contents as he had stumbled along the
passage.

"But I don't mind," said Ruggedo, with a deep sigh. "I now realize that
I could not have carried such a weighty load very far, even had I
managed to escape from this passage with it. The woman who sewed the
pockets on my robe used poor thread, for which I shall thank her."

"Have you any jewels left?" inquired Betsy.

He glanced into some of the remaining pockets.

"A few," said he, "but they will be sufficient to supply my wants, and
I no longer have any desire to be rich. If some of you will kindly help
me to rise, I'll get out of here and leave you, for I know you all
despise me and prefer my room to my company."

Shaggy and Kaliko raised the old King to his feet, when he was
confronted by Shaggy's brother, whom he now noticed for the first time.
The queer and unexpected appearance of the Ugly One so startled Ruggedo
that he gave a wild cry and began to tremble, as if he had seen a ghost.

"Wh--wh--who is this?" he faltered.

"I am that helpless prisoner whom your cruel magic transformed from a
handsome man into an ugly one!" answered Shaggy's brother, in a voice
of stern reproach.

"Really, Ruggedo," said Betsy, "you ought to be ashamed of that mean
trick."

"I am, my dear," admitted Ruggedo, who was now as meek and humble as
formerly he had been cruel and vindictive.

"Then," returned the girl, "you'd better do some more magic and give
the poor man his own face again."

"I wish I could," answered the old King; "but you must remember that
Tititi-Hoochoo has deprived me of all my magic powers. However, I never
took the trouble to learn just how to break the charm I cast over
Shaggy's brother, for I intended he should always remain ugly."

"Every charm," remarked pretty Polychrome, "has its antidote; and, if
you knew this charm of ugliness, Ruggedo, you must have known how to
dispel it."

He shook his head.

"If I did, I--I've forgotten," he stammered regretfully.

"Try to think!" pleaded Shaggy, anxiously. "Please try to think!"

Ruggedo ruffled his hair with both hands, sighed, slapped his chest,
rubbed his ear, and stared stupidly around the group.

"I've a faint recollection that there was one thing that would break
the charm," said he; "but misfortune has so addled my brain that I
can't remember what it was."

"See here, Ruggedo," said Betsy, sharply, "we've treated you pretty
well, so far, but we won't stand for any nonsense, and if you know
what's good for yourself you'll think of that charm!"

"Why?" he demanded, turning to look wonderingly at the little girl.

"Because it means so much to Shaggy's brother. He's dreadfully ashamed
of himself, the way he is now, and you're to blame for it. Fact is,
Ruggedo, you've done so much wickedness in your life that it won't hurt
you to do a kind act now."

Ruggedo blinked at her, and sighed again, and then tried very hard to
think.

"I seem to remember, dimly," said he, "that a certain kind of a kiss
will break the charm of ugliness."

"What kind of a kiss?"

"What kind? Why, it was--it was--it was either the kiss of a Mortal
Maid; or--or--the kiss of a Mortal Maid who had once been a Fairy;
or--or the kiss of one who is still a Fairy. I can't remember which.
But of course no maid, mortal or fairy, would ever consent to kiss a
person so ugly--so dreadfully, fearfully, terribly ugly--as Shaggy's
brother."

"I'm not so sure of that," said Betsy, with admirable courage; "I'm a
Mortal Maid, and if it is my kiss that will break this awful charm,
I--I'll do it!"

"Oh, you really couldn't," protested Ugly. "I would be obliged to
remove my mask, and when you saw my face, nothing could induce you to
kiss me, generous as you are."

"Well, as for that," said the little girl, "I needn't see your face at
all. Here's my plan: You stay in this dark passage, and we'll send away
the nomes with their torches. Then you'll take off the handkerchief,
and I--I'll kiss you."

"This is awfully kind of you, Betsy!" said Shaggy, gratefully.

"Well, it surely won't kill me," she replied; "and, if it makes you and
your brother happy, I'm willing to take some chances."

So Kaliko ordered the torch-bearers to leave the passage, which they
did by going through the rock opening. Queen Ann and her army also went
out; but the others were so interested in Betsy's experiment that they
remained grouped at the mouth of the passageway. When the big rock
swung into place, closing tight the opening, they were left in total
darkness.

"Now, then," called Betsy in a cheerful voice, "have you got that
handkerchief off your face, Ugly?"

"Yes," he replied.

"Well, where are you, then?" she asked, reaching out her arms.

"Here," said he.

"You'll have to stoop down, you know."

He found her hands and clasping them in his own stooped until his face
was near to that of the little girl. The others heard a clear, smacking
kiss, and then Betsy exclaimed:

"There! I've done it, and it didn't hurt a bit!"

"Tell me, dear brother; is the charm broken?" asked Shaggy.

"I do not know," was the reply. "It may be, or it may not be. I cannot
tell."

"Has anyone a match?" inquired Betsy.

"I have several," said Shaggy.

"Then let Ruggedo strike one of them and look at your brother's face,
while we all turn our backs. Ruggedo made your brother ugly, so I guess
he can stand the horror of looking at him, if the charm isn't broken."

Agreeing to this, Ruggedo took the match and lighted it. He gave one
look and then blew out the match.

"Ugly as ever!" he said with a shudder. "So it wasn't the kiss of a
Mortal Maid, after all."

"Let me try," proposed the Rose Princess, in her sweet voice. "I am a
Mortal Maid who was once a Fairy. Perhaps my kiss will break the charm."

Files did not wholly approve of this, but he was too generous to
interfere. So the Rose Princess felt her way through the darkness to
Shaggy's brother and kissed him.

Ruggedo struck another match, while they all turned away.

"No," announced the former King; "that didn't break the charm, either.
It must be the kiss of a Fairy that is required--or else my memory has
failed me altogether."

"Polly," said Betsy, pleadingly, "won't you try?"

"Of course I will!" answered Polychrome, with a merry laugh. "I've
never kissed a mortal man in all the thousands of years I have existed,
but I'll do it to please our faithful Shaggy Man, whose unselfish
affection for his ugly brother deserves to be rewarded."

Even as Polychrome was speaking she tripped lightly to the side of the
Ugly One and quickly touched his cheek with her lips.

"Oh, thank you--thank you!" he fervently cried. "I've changed, this
time, I know. I can feel it! I'm different. Shaggy--dear Shaggy--I am
myself again!"

Files, who was near the opening, touched the spring that released the
big rock and it suddenly swung backward and let in a flood of daylight.

Everyone stood motionless, staring hard at Shaggy's brother, who, no
longer masked by the polka-dot handkerchief, met their gaze with a glad
smile.

"Well," said Shaggy Man, breaking the silence at last and drawing a
long, deep breath of satisfaction, "you are no longer the Ugly One, my
dear brother; but, to be entirely frank with you, the face that belongs
to you is no more handsome than it ought to be."

"I think he's rather good looking," remarked Betsy, gazing at the man
critically.

"In comparison with what he was," said King Kaliko, "he is really
beautiful. You, who never beheld his ugliness, may not understand that;
but it was my misfortune to look at the Ugly One many times, and I say
again that, in comparison with what he was, the man is now beautiful."

"All right," returned Betsy, briskly, "we'll take your word for it,
Kaliko. And now let us get out of this tunnel and into the world again."




Chapter Twenty-Three

Ruggedo Reforms


It did not take them long to regain the royal cavern of the Nome King,
where Kaliko ordered served to them the nicest refreshments the place
afforded.

Ruggedo had come trailing along after the rest of the party and while
no one paid any attention to the old King they did not offer any
objection to his presence or command him to leave them. He looked
fearfully to see if the eggs were still guarding the entrance, but they
had now disappeared; so he crept into the cavern after the others and
humbly squatted down in a corner of the room.

There Betsy discovered him. All of the little girl's companions were
now so happy at the success of Shaggy's quest for his brother, and the
laughter and merriment seemed so general, that Betsy's heart softened
toward the friendless old man who had once been their bitter enemy, and
she carried to him some of the food and drink. Ruggedo's eyes filled
with tears at this unexpected kindness. He took the child's hand in his
own and pressed it gratefully.

"Look here, Kaliko," said Betsy, addressing the new King, "what's the
use of being hard on Ruggedo? All his magic power is gone, so he can't
do any more harm, and I'm sure he's sorry he acted so badly to
everybody."

"Are you?" asked Kaliko, looking down at his former master.

"I am," said Ruggedo. "The girl speaks truly. I'm sorry and I'm
harmless. I don't want to wander through the wide world, on top of the
ground, for I'm a nome. No nome can ever be happy any place but
underground."

"That being the case," said Kaliko, "I will let you stay here as long
as you behave yourself; but, if you try to act badly again, I shall
drive you out, as Tititi-Hoochoo has commanded, and you'll have to
wander."

"Never fear. I'll behave," promised Ruggedo. "It is hard work being a
King, and harder still to be a good King. But now that I am a common
nome I am sure I can lead a blameless life."

They were all pleased to hear this and to know that Ruggedo had really
reformed.

"I hope he'll keep his word," whispered Betsy to Shaggy; "but if he
gets bad again we will be far away from the Nome Kingdom and Kaliko
will have to 'tend to the old nome himself."

Polychrome had been a little restless during the last hour or two. The
lovely Daughter of the Rainbow knew that she had now done all in her
power to assist her earth friends, and so she began to long for her sky
home.

"I think," she said, after listening intently, "that it is beginning to
rain. The Rain King is my uncle, you know, and perhaps he has read my
thoughts and is going to help me. Anyway I must take a look at the sky
and make sure."

So she jumped up and ran through the passage to the outer entrance, and
they all followed after her and grouped themselves on a ledge of the
mountain-side. Sure enough, dark clouds had filled the sky and a slow,
drizzling rain had set in.

"It can't last for long," said Shaggy, looking upward, "and when it
stops we shall lose the sweet little fairy we have learned to love.
Alas," he continued, after a moment, "the clouds are already breaking
in the west, and--see!--isn't that the Rainbow coming?"

Betsy didn't look at the sky; she looked at Polychrome, whose happy,
smiling face surely foretold the coming of her father to take her to
the Cloud Palaces. A moment later a gleam of sunshine flooded the
mountain and a gorgeous Rainbow appeared.

With a cry of gladness Polychrome sprang upon a point of rock and held
out her arms. Straightway the Rainbow descended until its end was at
her very feet, when with a graceful leap she sprang upon it and was at
once clasped in the arms of her radiant sisters, the Daughters of the
Rainbow. But Polychrome released herself to lean over the edge of the
glowing arch and nod, and smile and throw a dozen kisses to her late
comrades.

"Good-bye!" she called, and they all shouted "Good-bye!" in return and
waved their hands to their pretty friend.

Slowly the magnificent bow lifted and melted into the sky, until the
eyes of the earnest watchers saw only fleecy clouds flitting across the
blue.

"I'm dreadful sorry to see Polychrome go," said Betsy, who felt like
crying; "but I s'pose she'll be a good deal happier with her sisters in
the sky palaces."

"To be sure," returned Shaggy, nodding gravely. "It's her home, you
know, and those poor wanderers who, like ourselves, have no home, can
realize what that means to her."

"Once," said Betsy, "I, too, had a home. Now, I've only--only--dear old
Hank!"

She twined her arms around her shaggy friend who was not human, and he
said: "Hee-haw!" in a tone that showed he understood her mood. And the
shaggy friend who was human stroked the child's head tenderly and said:
"You're wrong about that, Betsy, dear. I will never desert you."

"Nor I!" exclaimed Shaggy's brother, in earnest tones.

The little girl looked up at them gratefully, and her eyes smiled
through their tears.

"All right," she said. "It's raining again, so let's go back into the
cavern."

Rather soberly, for all loved Polychrome and would miss her, they
reentered the dominions of the Nome King.




Chapter Twenty-Four

Dorothy is Delighted


"Well," said Queen Ann, when all were again seated in Kaliko's royal
cavern, "I wonder what we shall do next. If I could find my way back to
Oogaboo I'd take my army home at once, for I'm sick and tired of these
dreadful hardships."

"Don't you want to conquer the world?" asked Betsy.

"No; I've changed my mind about that," admitted the Queen. "The world
is too big for one person to conquer and I was happier with my own
people in Oogaboo. I wish--Oh, how earnestly I wish--that I was back
there this minute!"

"So do I!" yelled every officer in a fervent tone.

Now, it is time for the reader to know that in the far-away Land of Oz
the lovely Ruler, Ozma, had been following the adventures of her Shaggy
Man, and Tik-Tok, and all the others they had met. Day by day Ozma,
with the wonderful Wizard of Oz seated beside her, had gazed upon a
Magic Picture in a radium frame, which occupied one side of the Ruler's
cosy boudoir in the palace of the Emerald City. The singular thing
about this Magic Picture was that it showed whatever scene Ozma wished
to see, with the figures all in motion, just as it was taking place. So
Ozma and the Wizard had watched every action of the adventurers from
the time Shaggy had met shipwrecked Betsy and Hank in the Rose Kingdom,
at which time the Rose Princess, a distant cousin of Ozma, had been
exiled by her heartless subjects.

When Ann and her people so earnestly wished to return to Oogaboo, Ozma
was sorry for them and remembered that Oogaboo was a corner of the Land
of Oz. She turned to her attendant and asked:

"Can not your magic take these unhappy people to their old home,
Wizard?"

"It can, Your Highness," replied the little Wizard.

"I think the poor Queen has suffered enough in her misguided effort to
conquer the world," said Ozma, smiling at the absurdity of the
undertaking, "so no doubt she will hereafter be contented in her own
little Kingdom. Please send her there, Wizard, and with her the
officers and Files."

"How about the Rose Princess?" asked the Wizard.

"Send her to Oogaboo with Files," answered Ozma. "They have become such
good friends that I am sure it would make them unhappy to separate
them."

"Very well," said the Wizard, and without any fuss or mystery whatever
he performed a magical rite that was simple and effective. Therefore
those seated in the Nome King's cavern were both startled and amazed
when all the people of Oogaboo suddenly disappeared from the room, and
with them the Rose Princess. At first they could not understand it at
all; but presently Shaggy suspected the truth, and believing that Ozma
was now taking an interest in the party he drew from his pocket a tiny
instrument which he placed against his ear.

Ozma, observing this action in her Magic Picture, at once caught up a
similar instrument from a table beside her and held it to her own ear.
The two instruments recorded the same delicate vibrations of sound and
formed a wireless telephone, an invention of the Wizard. Those
separated by any distance were thus enabled to converse together with
perfect ease and without any wire connection.

"Do you hear me, Shaggy Man?" asked Ozma.

"Yes, Your Highness," he replied.

"I have sent the people of Oogaboo back to their own little valley,"
announced the Ruler of Oz; "so do not worry over their disappearance."

"That was very kind of you," said Shaggy. "But Your Highness must
permit me to report that my own mission here is now ended. I have found
my lost brother, and he is now beside me, freed from the enchantment of
ugliness which Ruggedo cast upon him. Tik-Tok has served me and my
comrades faithfully, as you requested him to do, and I hope you will
now transport the Clockwork Man back to your fairyland of Oz."

"I will do that," replied Ozma. "But how about yourself, Shaggy?"

"I have been very happy in Oz," he said, "but my duty to others forces
me to exile myself from that delightful land. I must take care of my
new-found brother, for one thing, and I have a new comrade in a dear
little girl named Betsy Bobbin, who has no home to go to, and no other
friends but me and a small donkey named Hank. I have promised Betsy
never to desert her as long as she needs a friend, and so I must give
up the delights of the Land of Oz forever."

He said this with a sigh of regret, and Ozma made no reply but laid the
tiny instrument on her table, thus cutting off all further
communication with the Shaggy Man. But the lovely Ruler of Oz still
watched her magic picture, with a thoughtful expression upon her face,
and the little Wizard of Oz watched Ozma and smiled softly to himself.

In the cavern of the Nome King Shaggy replaced the wireless telephone
in his pocket and turning to Betsy said in as cheerful a voice as he
could muster:

"Well, little comrade, what shall we do next?"

"I don't know, I'm sure," she answered with a puzzled face. "I'm kind
of sorry our adventures are over, for I enjoyed them, and now that
Queen Ann and her people are gone, and Polychrome is gone, and--dear
me!--where's Tik-Tok, Shaggy?"

"He also has disappeared," said Shaggy, looking around the cavern and
nodding wisely. "By this time he is in Ozma's palace in the Land of Oz,
which is his home."

"Isn't it your home, too?" asked Betsy.

"It used to be, my dear; but now my home is wherever you and my brother
are. We are wanderers, you know, but if we stick together I am sure we
shall have a good time."

"Then," said the girl, "let us get out of this stuffy, underground
cavern and go in search of new adventures. I'm sure it has stopped
raining."

"I'm ready," said Shaggy, and then they bade good-bye to King Kaliko,
and thanked him for his assistance, and went out to the mouth of the
passage.

The sky was now clear and a brilliant blue in color; the sun shone
brightly and even this rugged, rocky country seemed delightful after
their confinement underground. There were but four of them now--Betsy
and Hank, and Shaggy and his brother--and the little party made their
way down the mountain and followed a faint path that led toward the
southwest.

During this time Ozma had been holding a conference with the Wizard,
and later with Tik-Tok, whom the magic of the Wizard had quickly
transported to Ozma's palace. Tik-Tok had only words of praise for
Betsy Bobbin, "who," he said, "is al-most as nice as Dor-o-thy
her-self."

"Let us send for Dorothy," said Ozma, and summoning her favorite maid,
who was named Jellia Jamb, she asked her to request Princess Dorothy to
attend her at once. So a few moments later Dorothy entered Ozma's room
and greeted her and the Wizard and Tik-Tok with the same gentle smile
and simple manner that had won for the little girl the love of everyone
she met.

"Did you want to see me, Ozma?" she asked.

"Yes, dear. I am puzzled how to act, and I want your advice."

"I don't b'lieve it's worth much," replied Dorothy, "but I'll do the
best I can. What is it all about, Ozma?"

"You all know," said the girl Ruler, addressing her three friends,
"what a serious thing it is to admit any mortals into this fairyland of
Oz. It is true I have invited several mortals to make their home here,
and all of them have proved true and loyal subjects. Indeed, no one of
you three was a native of Oz. Dorothy and the Wizard came here from the
United States, and Tik-Tok came from the Land of Ev. But of course he
is not a mortal. Shaggy is another American, and he is the cause of all
my worry, for our dear Shaggy will not return here and desert the new
friends he has found in his recent adventures, because he believes they
need his services."

"Shaggy Man was always kind-hearted," remarked Dorothy. "But who are
these new friends he has found?"

"One is his brother, who for many years has been a prisoner of the Nome
King, our old enemy Ruggedo. This brother seems a kindly, honest
fellow, but he has done nothing to entitle him to a home in the Land of
Oz."

"Who else?" asked Dorothy.

"I have told you about Betsy Bobbin, the little girl who was
shipwrecked--in much the same way you once were--and has since been
following the Shaggy Man in his search for his lost brother. You
remember her, do you not?"

"Oh, yes!" exclaimed Dorothy. "I've often watched her and Hank in the
Magic Picture, you know. She's a dear little girl, and old Hank is a
darling! Where are they now?"

"Look and see," replied Ozma with a smile at her friend's enthusiasm.

Dorothy turned to the Picture, which showed Betsy and Hank, with Shaggy
and his brother, trudging along the rocky paths of a barren country.

"Seems to me," she said, musingly, "that they're a good way from any
place to sleep, or any nice things to eat."

"You are right," said Tik-Tok. "I have been in that coun-try, and it is
a wil-der-ness."

"It is the country of the nomes," explained the Wizard, "who are so
mischievous that no one cares to live near them. I'm afraid Shaggy and
his friends will endure many hardships before they get out of that
rocky place, unless--"

He turned to Ozma and smiled.

"Unless I ask you to transport them all here?" she asked.

"Yes, your Highness."

"Could your magic do that?" inquired Dorothy.

"I think so," said the Wizard.

"Well," said Dorothy, "as far as Betsy and Hank are concerned, I'd like
to have them here in Oz. It would be such fun to have a girl playmate
of my own age, you see. And Hank is such a dear little mule!"

Ozma laughed at the wistful expression in the girl's eyes, and then she
drew Dorothy to her and kissed her.

"Am I not your friend and playmate?" she asked.

Dorothy flushed.

"You know how dearly I love you, Ozma!" she cried. "But you're so busy
ruling all this Land of Oz that we can't always be together."

"I know, dear. My first duty is to my subjects, and I think it would be
a delight to us all to have Betsy with us. There's a pretty suite of
rooms just opposite your own where she can live, and I'll build a
golden stall for Hank in the stable where the Sawhorse lives. Then
we'll introduce the mule to the Cowardly Lion and the Hungry Tiger, and
I'm sure they will soon become firm friends. But I cannot very well
admit Betsy and Hank into Oz unless I also admit Shaggy's brother."

"And, unless you admit Shaggy's brother, you will keep out poor Shaggy,
whom we are all very fond of," said the Wizard.

"Well, why not ad-mit him?" demanded Tik-Tok.

"The Land of Oz is not a refuge for all mortals in distress," explained
Ozma. "I do not wish to be unkind to Shaggy Man, but his brother has no
claim on me."

"The Land of Oz isn't crowded," suggested Dorothy.

"Then you advise me to admit Shaggy's brother?" inquired Ozma.

"Well, we can't afford to lose our Shaggy Man, can we?"

"No, indeed!" returned Ozma. "What do you say, Wizard?"

"I'm getting my magic ready to transport them all."

"And you, Tik-Tok?"

"Shag-gy's broth-er is a good fel-low, and we can't spare Shag-gy."

"So, then; the question is settled," decided Ozma. "Perform your magic,
Wizard!"

He did so, placing a silver plate upon a small standard and pouring
upon the plate a small quantity of pink powder which was contained in a
crystal vial. Then he muttered a rather difficult incantation which the
sorceress Glinda the Good had taught him, and it all ended in a puff of
perfumed smoke from the silver plate. This smoke was so pungent that it
made both Ozma and Dorothy rub their eyes for a moment.

"You must pardon these disagreeable fumes," said the Wizard. "I assure
you the smoke is a very necessary part of my wizardry."

"Look!" cried Dorothy, pointing to the Magic Picture; "they're gone!
All of them are gone."

Indeed, the picture now showed the same rocky landscape as before, but
the three people and the mule had disappeared from it.

"They are gone," said the Wizard, polishing the silver plate and
wrapping it in a fine cloth, "because they are here."

At that moment Jellia Jamb entered the room.

"Your Highness," she said to Ozma, "the Shaggy Man and another man are
in the waiting room and ask to pay their respects to you. Shaggy is
crying like a baby, but he says they are tears of joy."

"Send them here at once, Jellia!" commanded Ozma.

"Also," continued the maid, "a girl and a small-sized mule have
mysteriously arrived, but they don't seem to know where they are or how
they came here. Shall I send them here, too?"

"Oh, no!" exclaimed Dorothy, eagerly jumping up from her chair; "I'll
go to meet Betsy myself, for she'll feel awful strange in this big
palace."

And she ran down the stairs two at a time to greet her new friend,
Betsy Bobbin.




Chapter Twenty-Five

The Land of Love


"Well, is 'hee-haw' all you are able to say?" inquired the Sawhorse, as
he examined Hank with his knot eyes and slowly wagged the branch that
served him for a tail.

They were in a beautiful stable in the rear of Ozma's palace, where the
wooden Sawhorse--very much alive--lived in a gold-paneled stall, and
where there were rooms for the Cowardly Lion and the Hungry Tiger,
which were filled with soft cushions for them to lie upon and golden
troughs for them to eat from.

Beside the stall of the Sawhorse had been placed another for Hank, the
mule. This was not quite so beautiful as the other, for the Sawhorse
was Ozma's favorite steed; but Hank had a supply of cushions for a bed
(which the Sawhorse did not need because he never slept) and all this
luxury was so strange to the little mule that he could only stand still
and regard his surroundings and his queer companions with wonder and
amazement.

The Cowardly Lion, looking very dignified, was stretched out upon the
marble floor of the stable, eyeing Hank with a calm and critical gaze,
while near by crouched the huge Hungry Tiger, who seemed equally
interested in the new animal that had just arrived. The Sawhorse,
standing stiffly before Hank, repeated his question:

"Is 'hee-haw' all you are able to say?"

Hank moved his ears in an embarrassed manner.

"I have never said anything else, until now," he replied; and then he
began to tremble with fright to hear himself talk.

"I can well understand that," remarked the Lion, wagging his great head
with a swaying motion. "Strange things happen in this Land of Oz, as
they do everywhere else. I believe you came here from the cold,
civilized, outside world, did you not?"

"I did," replied Hank. "One minute I was outside of Oz--and the next
minute I was inside! That was enough to give me a nervous shock, as you
may guess; but to find myself able to talk, as Betsy does, is a marvel
that staggers me."

"That is because you are in the Land of Oz," said the Sawhorse. "All
animals talk, in this favored country, and you must admit it is more
sociable than to bray your dreadful 'hee-haw,' which nobody can
understand."

"Mules understand it very well," declared Hank.

"Oh, indeed! Then there must be other mules in your outside world,"
said the Tiger, yawning sleepily.

"There are a great many in America," said Hank. "Are you the only Tiger
in Oz?"

"No," acknowledged the Tiger, "I have many relatives living in the
Jungle Country; but I am the only Tiger living in the Emerald City."

"There are other Lions, too," said the Sawhorse; "but I am the only
horse, of any description, in this favored Land."

"That is why this Land is favored," said the Tiger. "You must
understand, friend Hank, that the Sawhorse puts on airs because he is
shod with plates of gold, and because our beloved Ruler, Ozma of Oz,
likes to ride upon his back."

"Betsy rides upon my back," declared Hank proudly.

"Who is Betsy?"

"The dearest, sweetest girl in all the world!"

The Sawhorse gave an angry snort and stamped his golden feet. The Tiger
crouched and growled. Slowly the great Lion rose to his feet, his mane
bristling.

"Friend Hank," said he, "either you are mistaken in judgment or you are
willfully trying to deceive us. The dearest, sweetest girl in the world
is our Dorothy, and I will fight anyone--animal or human--who dares to
deny it!"

"So will I!" snarled the Tiger, showing two rows of enormous white
teeth.

"You are all wrong!" asserted the Sawhorse in a voice of scorn. "No
girl living can compare with my mistress, Ozma of Oz!"

Hank slowly turned around until his heels were toward the others. Then
he said stubbornly:

"I am not mistaken in my statement, nor will I admit there can be a
sweeter girl alive than Betsy Bobbin. If you want to fight, come
on--I'm ready for you!"

While they hesitated, eyeing Hank's heels doubtfully, a merry peal of
laughter startled the animals and turning their heads they beheld three
lovely girls standing just within the richly carved entrance to the
stable. In the center was Ozma, her arms encircling the waists of
Dorothy and Betsy, who stood on either side of her. Ozma was nearly
half a head taller than the two other girls, who were almost of one
size. Unobserved, they had listened to the talk of the animals, which
was a very strange experience indeed to little Betsy Bobbin.

"You foolish beasts!" exclaimed the Ruler of Oz, in a gentle but
chiding voice. "Why should you fight to defend us, who are all three
loving friends and in no sense rivals? Answer me!" she continued, as
they bowed their heads sheepishly.

"I have the right to express my opinion, your Highness," pleaded the
Lion.

"And so have the others," replied Ozma. "I am glad you and the Hungry
Tiger love Dorothy best, for she was your first friend and companion.
Also I am pleased that my Sawhorse loves me best, for together we have
endured both joy and sorrow. Hank has proved his faith and loyalty by
defending his own little mistress; and so you are all right in one way,
but wrong in another. Our Land of Oz is a Land of Love, and here
friendship outranks every other quality. Unless you can all be friends,
you cannot retain our love."

They accepted this rebuke very meekly.

"All right," said the Sawhorse, quite cheerfully; "shake hoofs, friend
Mule."

Hank touched his hoof to that of the wooden horse.

"Let us be friends and rub noses," said the Tiger. So Hank modestly
rubbed noses with the big beast.

The Lion merely nodded and said, as he crouched before the mule:

"Any friend of a friend of our beloved Ruler is a friend of the
Cowardly Lion. That seems to cover your case. If ever you need help or
advice, friend Hank, call on me."

"Why, this is as it should be," said Ozma, highly pleased to see them
so fully reconciled. Then she turned to her companions: "Come, my
dears, let us resume our walk."

As they turned away Betsy said wonderingly:

"Do all the animals in Oz talk as we do?"

"Almost all," answered Dorothy. "There's a Yellow Hen here, and she can
talk, and so can her chickens; and there's a Pink Kitten upstairs in my
room who talks very nicely; but I've a little fuzzy black dog, named
Toto, who has been with me in Oz a long time, and he's never said a
single word but 'Bow-wow!'"

"Do you know why?" asked Ozma.

"Why, he's a Kansas dog; so I s'pose he's different from these fairy
animals," replied Dorothy.

"Hank isn't a fairy animal, any more than Toto," said Ozma, "yet as
soon as he came under the spell of our fairyland he found he could
talk. It was the same way with Billina, the Yellow Hen whom you brought
here at one time. The same spell has affected Toto, I assure you; but
he's a wise little dog and while he knows everything that is said to
him he prefers not to talk."

"Goodness me!" exclaimed Dorothy. "I never s'pected Toto was fooling me
all this time." Then she drew a small silver whistle from her pocket
and blew a shrill note upon it. A moment later there was a sound of
scurrying footsteps, and a shaggy black dog came running up the path.

Dorothy knelt down before him and shaking her finger just above his
nose she said:

"Toto, haven't I always been good to you?"

Toto looked up at her with his bright black eyes and wagged his tail.

"Bow-wow!" he said, and Betsy knew at once that meant yes, as well as
Dorothy and Ozma knew it, for there was no mistaking the tone of Toto's
voice.

"That's a dog answer," said Dorothy. "How would you like it, Toto, if I
said nothing to you but 'bow-wow'?"

Toto's tail was wagging furiously now, but otherwise he was silent.

"Really, Dorothy," said Betsy, "he can talk with his bark and his tail
just as well as we can. Don't you understand such dog language?"

"Of course I do," replied Dorothy. "But Toto's got to be more sociable.
See here, sir!" she continued, addressing the dog, "I've just learned,
for the first time, that you can say words--if you want to. Don't you
want to, Toto?"

"Woof!" said Toto, and that meant "no."

"Not just one word, Toto, to prove you're as any other animal in Oz?"

"Woof!"

"Just one word, Toto--and then you may run away."

He looked at her steadily a moment.

"All right. Here I go!" he said, and darted away as swift as an arrow.

Dorothy clapped her hands in delight, while Betsy and Ozma both laughed
heartily at her pleasure and the success of her experiment. Arm in arm
they sauntered away through the beautiful gardens of the palace, where
magnificent flowers bloomed in abundance and fountains shot their
silvery sprays far into the air. And by and by, as they turned a
corner, they came upon Shaggy Man and his brother, who were seated
together upon a golden bench.

The two arose to bow respectfully as the Ruler of Oz approached them.

"How are you enjoying our Land of Oz?" Ozma asked the stranger.

"I am very happy here, Your Highness," replied Shaggy's brother. "Also
I am very grateful to you for permitting me to live in this delightful
place."

"You must thank Shaggy for that," said Ozma. "Being his brother, I have
made you welcome here."

"When you know Brother better," said Shaggy earnestly, "you will be
glad he has become one of your loyal subjects. I am just getting
acquainted with him myself and I find much in his character to admire."

Leaving the brothers, Ozma and the girls continued their walk.
Presently Betsy exclaimed:

"Shaggy's brother can't ever be as happy in Oz as I am. Do you know,
Dorothy, I didn't believe any girl could ever have such a good
time--anywhere--as I'm having now?"

"I know," answered Dorothy. "I've felt that way myself, lots of times."

"I wish," continued Betsy, dreamily, "that every little girl in the
world could live in the Land of Oz; and every little boy, too!"

Ozma laughed at this.

"It is quite fortunate for us, Betsy, that your wish cannot be
granted," said she, "for all that army of girls and boys would crowd us
so that we would have to move away."

"Yes," agreed Betsy, after a little thought, "I guess that's true."



Chapter One

Woot the Wanderer


The Tin Woodman sat on his glittering tin throne in the handsome tin
hall of his splendid tin castle in the Winkie Country of the Land of
Oz. Beside him, in a chair of woven straw, sat his best friend, the
Scarecrow of Oz. At times they spoke to one another of curious things
they had seen and strange adventures they had known since first they
two had met and become comrades. But at times they were silent, for
these things had been talked over many times between them, and they
found themselves contented in merely being together, speaking now and
then a brief sentence to prove they were wide awake and attentive. But
then, these two quaint persons never slept. Why should they sleep, when
they never tired?

And now, as the brilliant sun sank low over the Winkie Country of Oz,
tinting the glistening tin towers and tin minarets of the tin castle
with glorious sunset hues, there approached along a winding pathway
Woot the Wanderer, who met at the castle entrance a Winkie servant.

The servants of the Tin Woodman all wore tin helmets and tin
breastplates and uniforms covered with tiny tin discs sewed closely
together on silver cloth, so that their bodies sparkled as beautifully
as did the tin castle--and almost as beautifully as did the Tin Woodman
himself.

Woot the Wanderer looked at the man servant--all bright and
glittering--and at the magnificent castle--all bright and
glittering--and as he looked his eyes grew big with wonder. For Woot
was not very big and not very old and, wanderer though he was, this
proved the most gorgeous sight that had ever met his boyish gaze.

"Who lives here?" he asked.

"The Emperor of the Winkies, who is the famous Tin Woodman of Oz,"
replied the servant, who had been trained to treat all strangers with
courtesy.

"A Tin Woodman?  How queer!" exclaimed the little wanderer.

"Well, perhaps our Emperor is queer," admitted the servant; "but he is
a kind master and as honest and true as good tin can make him; so we,
who gladly serve him, are apt to forget that he is not like other
people."

"May I see him?" asked Woot the Wanderer, after a moment's thought.

"If it please you to wait a moment, I will go and ask him," said the
servant, and then he went into the hall where the Tin Woodman sat with
his friend the Scarecrow. Both were glad to learn that a stranger had
arrived at the castle, for this would give them something new to talk
about, so the servant was asked to admit the boy at once.

By the time Woot the Wanderer had passed through the grand
corridors--all lined with ornamental tin--and under stately tin
archways and through the many tin rooms all set with beautiful tin
furniture, his eyes had grown bigger than ever and his whole little
body thrilled with amazement. But, astonished though he was, he was
able to make a polite bow before the throne and to say in a respectful
voice: "I salute your Illustrious Majesty and offer you my humble
services."

"Very good!" answered the Tin Woodman in his accustomed cheerful
manner. "Tell me who you are, and whence you come."

"I am known as Woot the Wanderer," answered the boy, "and I have come,
through many travels and by roundabout ways, from my former home in a
far corner of the Gillikin Country of Oz."

"To wander from one's home," remarked the Scarecrow, "is to encounter
dangers and hardships, especially if one is made of meat and bone. Had
you no friends in that corner of the Gillikin Country? Was it not
homelike and comfortable?"

To hear a man stuffed with straw speak, and speak so well, quite
startled Woot, and perhaps he stared a bit rudely at the Scarecrow. But
after a moment he replied:

"I had home and friends, your Honorable Strawness, but they were so
quiet and happy and comfortable that I found them dismally stupid.
Nothing in that corner of Oz interested me, but I believed that in
other parts of the country I would find strange people and see new
sights, and so I set out upon my wandering journey. I have been a
wanderer for nearly a full year, and now my wanderings have brought me
to this splendid castle."

"I suppose," said the Tin Woodman, "that in this year you have seen so
much that you have become very wise."

"No," replied Woot, thoughtfully, "I am not at all wise, I beg to
assure your Majesty. The more I wander the less I find that I know, for
in the Land of Oz much wisdom and many things may be learned."

"To learn is simple. Don't you ask questions?" inquired the Scarecrow.

"Yes; I ask as many questions as I dare; but some people refuse to
answer questions."

"That is not kind of them," declared the Tin Woodman. "If one does not
ask for information he seldom receives it; so I, for my part, make it a
rule to answer any civil question that is asked me."

"So do I," added the Scarecrow, nodding.

"I am glad to hear this," said the Wanderer, "for it makes me bold to
ask for something to eat."

"Bless the boy!" cried the Emperor of the Winkies; "how careless of me
not to remember that wanderers are usually hungry. I will have food
brought you at once."

Saying this he blew upon a tin whistle that was suspended from his tin
neck, and at the summons a servant appeared and bowed low. The Tin
Woodman ordered food for the stranger, and in a few minutes the servant
brought in a tin tray heaped with a choice array of good things to eat,
all neatly displayed on tin dishes that were polished till they shone
like mirrors. The tray was set upon a tin table drawn before the
throne, and the servant placed a tin chair before the table for the boy
to seat himself.

"Eat, friend Wanderer," said the Emperor cordially, "and I trust the
feast will be to your liking. I, myself, do not eat, being made in such
manner that I require no food to keep me alive. Neither does my friend
the Scarecrow. But all my Winkie people eat, being formed of flesh, as
you are, and so my tin cupboard is never bare, and strangers are always
welcome to whatever it contains."

The boy ate in silence for a time, being really hungry, but after his
appetite was somewhat satisfied, he said:

"How happened your Majesty to be made of tin, and still be alive?"

"That," replied the tin man, "is a long story."

"The longer the better," said the boy. "Won't you please tell me the
story?"

"If you desire it," promised the Tin Woodman, leaning back in his tin
throne and crossing his tin legs. "I haven't related my history in a
long while, because everyone here knows it nearly as well as I do. But
you, being a stranger, are no doubt curious to learn how I became so
beautiful and prosperous, so I will recite for your benefit my strange
adventures."

"Thank you," said Woot the Wanderer, still eating.

"I was not always made of tin," began the Emperor, "for in the
beginning I was a man of flesh and bone and blood and lived in the
Munchkin Country of Oz. There I was, by trade, a woodchopper, and
contributed my share to the comfort of the Oz people by chopping up the
trees of the forest to make firewood, with which the women would cook
their meals while the children warmed themselves about the fires. For
my home I had a little hut by the edge of the forest, and my life was
one of much content until I fell in love with a beautiful Munchkin girl
who lived not far away."

"What was the Munchkin girl's name?" asked Woot.

"Nimmie Amee. This girl, so fair that the sunsets blushed when their
rays fell upon her, lived with a powerful witch who wore silver shoes
and who had made the poor child her slave. Nimmie Amee was obliged to
work from morning till night for the old Witch of the East, scrubbing
and sweeping her hut and cooking her meals and washing her dishes. She
had to cut firewood, too, until I found her one day in the forest and
fell in love with her. After that, I always brought plenty of firewood
to Nimmie Amee and we became very friendly. Finally I asked her to
marry me, and she agreed to do so, but the Witch happened to overhear
our conversation and it made her very angry, for she did not wish her
slave to be taken away from her. The Witch commanded me never to come
near Nimmie Amee again, but I told her I was my own master and would do
as I pleased, not realizing that this was a careless way to speak to a
Witch.

"The next day, as I was cutting wood in the forest, the cruel Witch
enchanted my axe, so that it slipped and cut off my right leg."

"How dreadful!" cried Woot the Wanderer.

"Yes, it was a seeming misfortune," agreed the Tin Man, "for a
one-legged woodchopper is of little use in his trade. But I would not
allow the Witch to conquer me so easily. I knew a very skillful
mechanic at the other side of the forest, who was my friend, so I
hopped on one leg to him and asked him to help me. He soon made me a
new leg out of tin and fastened it cleverly to my meat body. It had
joints at the knee and at the ankle and was almost as comfortable as
the leg I had lost."

"Your friend must have been a wonderful workman!" exclaimed Woot.

"He was, indeed," admitted the Emperor. "He was a tinsmith by trade and
could make anything out of tin. When I returned to Nimmie Amee, the
girl was delighted and threw her arms around my neck and kissed me,
declaring she was proud of me. The Witch saw the kiss and was more
angry than before. When I went to work in the forest, next day, my axe,
being still enchanted, slipped and cut off my other leg. Again I
hopped--on my tin leg--to my friend the tinsmith, who kindly made me
another tin leg and fastened it to my body. So I returned joyfully to
Nimmie Amee, who was much pleased with my glittering legs and promised
that when we were wed she would always keep them oiled and polished.
But the Witch was more furious than ever, and as soon as I raised my
axe to chop, it twisted around and cut off one of my arms. The tinsmith
made me a tin arm and I was not much worried, because Nimmie Amee
declared she still loved me."




Chapter Two

The Heart of the Tin Woodman


The Emperor of the Winkies paused in his story to reach for an oil-can,
with which he carefully oiled the joints in his tin throat, for his
voice had begun to squeak a little. Woot the Wanderer, having satisfied
his hunger, watched this oiling process with much curiosity, but begged
the Tin Man to go on with his tale.

"The Witch with the Silver Shoes hated me for having defied her,"
resumed the Emperor, his voice now sounding clear as a bell, "and she
insisted that Nimmie Amee should never marry me.  Therefore she made
the enchanted axe cut off my other arm, and the tinsmith also replaced
that member with tin, including these finely-jointed hands that you see
me using. But, alas! after that, the axe, still enchanted by the cruel
Witch, cut my body in two, so that I fell to the ground. Then the
Witch, who was watching from a near-by bush, rushed up and seized the
axe and chopped my body into several small pieces, after which,
thinking that at last she had destroyed me, she ran away laughing in
wicked glee.

"But Nimmie Amee found me. She picked up my arms and legs and head, and
made a bundle of them and carried them to the tinsmith, who set to work
and made me a fine body of pure tin. When he had joined the arms and
legs to the body, and set my head in the tin collar, I was a much
better man than ever, for my body could not ache or pain me, and I was
so beautiful and bright that I had no need of clothing. Clothing is
always a nuisance, because it soils and tears and has to be replaced;
but my tin body only needs to be oiled and polished.

"Nimmie Amee still declared she would marry me, as she still loved me
in spite of the Witch's evil deeds. The girl declared I would make the
brightest husband in all the world, which was quite true. However, the
Wicked Witch was not yet defeated. When I returned to my work the axe
slipped and cut off my head, which was the only meat part of me then
remaining. Moreover, the old woman grabbed up my severed head and
carried it away with her and hid it. But Nimmie Amee came into the
forest and found me wandering around helplessly, because I could not
see where to go, and she led me to my friend the tinsmith. The faithful
fellow at once set to work to make me a tin head, and he had just
completed it when Nimmie Amee came running up with my old head, which
she had stolen from the Witch. But, on reflection, I considered the tin
head far superior to the meat one--I am wearing it yet, so you can see
its beauty and grace of outline--and the girl agreed with me that a man
all made of tin was far more perfect than one formed of different
materials. The tinsmith was as proud of his workmanship as I was, and
for three whole days, all admired me and praised my beauty. Being now
completely formed of tin, I had no more fear of the Wicked Witch, for
she was powerless to injure me. Nimmie Amee said we must be married at
once, for then she could come to my cottage and live with me and keep
me bright and sparkling.

"'I am sure, my dear Nick,' said the brave and beautiful girl--my name
was then Nick Chopper, you should be told--'that you will make the best
husband any girl could have. I shall not be obliged to cook for you,
for now you do not eat; I shall not have to make your bed, for tin does
not tire or require sleep; when we go to a dance, you will not get
weary before the music stops and say you want to go home. All day long,
while you are chopping wood in the forest, I shall be able to amuse
myself in my own way--a privilege few wives enjoy. There is no temper
in your new head, so you will not get angry with me. Finally, I shall
take pride in being the wife of the only live Tin Woodman in all the
world!' Which shows that Nimmie Amee was as wise as she was brave and
beautiful."

"I think she was a very nice girl," said Woot the Wanderer. "But, tell
me, please, why were you not killed when you were chopped to pieces?"

"In the Land of Oz," replied the Emperor, "no one can ever be killed. A
man with a wooden leg or a tin leg is still the same man; and, as I
lost parts of my meat body by degrees, I always remained the same
person as in the beginning, even though in the end I was all tin and no
meat."

"I see," said the boy, thoughtfully. "And did you marry Nimmie Amee?"

"No," answered the Tin Woodman, "I did not. She said she still loved
me, but I found that I no longer loved her. My tin body contained no
heart, and without a heart no one can love. So the Wicked Witch
conquered in the end, and when I left the Munchkin Country of Oz, the
poor girl was still the slave of the Witch and had to do her bidding
day and night."

"Where did you go?" asked Woot.

"Well, I first started out to find a heart, so I could love Nimmie Amee
again; but hearts are more scarce than one would think. One day, in a
big forest that was strange to me, my joints suddenly became rusted,
because I had forgotten to oil them. There I stood, unable to move hand
or foot. And there I continued to stand--while days came and
went--until Dorothy and the Scarecrow came along and rescued me. They
oiled my joints and set me free, and I've taken good care never to rust
again."

"Who was this Dorothy?" questioned the Wanderer.

"A little girl who happened to be in a house when it was carried by a
cyclone all the way from Kansas to the Land of Oz. When the house fell,
in the Munchkin Country, it fortunately landed on the Wicked Witch and
smashed her flat. It was a big house, and I think the Witch is under it
yet."

"No," said the Scarecrow, correcting him, "Dorothy says the Witch
turned to dust, and the wind scattered the dust in every direction."

"Well," continued the Tin Woodman, "after meeting the Scarecrow and
Dorothy, I went with them to the Emerald City, where the Wizard of Oz
gave me a heart. But the Wizard's stock of hearts was low, and he gave
me a Kind Heart instead of a Loving Heart, so that I could not love
Nimmie Amee any more than I did when I was heartless."

"Couldn't the Wizard give you a heart that was both Kind and Loving?"
asked the boy.

"No; that was what I asked for, but he said he was so short on hearts,
just then, that there was but one in stock, and I could take that or
none at all. So I accepted it, and I must say that for its kind it is a
very good heart indeed."

"It seems to me," said Woot, musingly, "that the Wizard fooled you. It
can't be a very Kind Heart, you know."

"Why not?" demanded the Emperor.

"Because it was unkind of you to desert the girl who loved you, and who
had been faithful and true to you when you were in trouble. Had the
heart the Wizard gave you been a Kind Heart, you would have gone back
home and made the beautiful Munchkin girl your wife, and then brought
her here to be an Empress and live in your splendid tin castle."

The Tin Woodman was so surprised at this frank speech that for a time
he did nothing but stare hard at the boy Wanderer. But the Scarecrow
wagged his stuffed head and said in a positive tone:

"This boy is right. I've often wondered, myself, why you didn't go back
and find that poor Munchkin girl."

Then the Tin Woodman stared hard at his friend the Scarecrow. But
finally he said in a serious tone of voice:

"I must admit that never before have I thought of such a thing as
finding Nimmie Amee and making her Empress of the Winkies. But it is
surely not too late, even now, to do this, for the girl must still be
living in the Munchkin Country. And, since this strange Wanderer has
reminded me of Nimmie Amee, I believe it is my duty to set out and find
her. Surely it is not the girl's fault that I no longer love her, and
so, if I can make her happy, it is proper that I should do so, and in
this way reward her for her faithfulness."

"Quite right, my friend!" agreed the Scarecrow.

"Will you accompany me on this errand?" asked the Tin Emperor.

"Of course," said the Scarecrow.

"And will you take me along?" pleaded Woot the Wanderer in an eager
voice.

"To be sure," said the Tin Woodman, "if you care to join our party. It
was you who first told me it was my duty to find and marry Nimmie Amee,
and I'd like you to know that Nick Chopper, the Tin Emperor of the
Winkies, is a man who never shirks his duty, once it is pointed out to
him."

"It ought to be a pleasure, as well as a duty, if the girl is so
beautiful," said Woot, well pleased with the idea of the adventure.

"Beautiful things may be admired, if not loved," asserted the Tin Man.
"Flowers are beautiful, for instance, but we are not inclined to marry
them. Duty, on the contrary, is a bugle call to action, whether you are
inclined to act, or not. In this case, I obey the bugle call of duty."

"When shall we start?" inquired the Scarecrow, who was always glad to
embark upon a new adventure. "I don't hear any bugle, but when do we
go?"

"As soon as we can get ready," answered the Emperor. "I'll call my
servants at once and order them to make preparations for our journey."




Chapter Three

Roundabout


Woot the Wanderer slept that night in the tin castle of the Emperor of
the Winkies and found his tin bed quite comfortable. Early the next
morning he rose and took a walk through the gardens, where there were
tin fountains and beds of curious tin flowers, and where tin birds
perched upon the branches of tin trees and sang songs that sounded like
the notes of tin whistles. All these wonders had been made by the
clever Winkie tinsmiths, who wound the birds up every morning so that
they would move about and sing.

After breakfast the boy went into the throne room, where the Emperor
was having his tin joints carefully oiled by a servant, while other
servants were stuffing sweet, fresh straw into the body of the
Scarecrow.

Woot watched this operation with much interest, for the Scarecrow's
body was only a suit of clothes filled with straw. The coat was
buttoned tight to keep the packed straw from falling out and a rope was
tied around the waist to hold it in shape and prevent the straw from
sagging down. The Scarecrow's head was a gunnysack filled with bran, on
which the eyes, nose and mouth had been painted. His hands were white
cotton gloves stuffed with fine straw. Woot noticed that even when
carefully stuffed and patted into shape, the straw man was awkward in
his movements and decidedly wobbly on his feet, so the boy wondered if
the Scarecrow would be able to travel with them all the way to the
forests of the Munchkin Country of Oz.

The preparations made for this important journey were very simple. A
knapsack was filled with food and given Woot the Wanderer to carry upon
his back, for the food was for his use alone. The Tin Woodman
shouldered an axe which was sharp and brightly polished, and the
Scarecrow put the Emperor's oil-can in his pocket, that he might oil
his friend's joints should they need it.

"Who will govern the Winkie Country during your absence?" asked the boy.

"Why, the Country will run itself," answered the Emperor. "As a matter
of fact, my people do not need an Emperor, for Ozma of Oz watches over
the welfare of all her subjects, including the Winkies. Like a good
many kings and emperors, I have a grand title, but very little real
power, which allows me time to amuse myself in my own way. The people
of Oz have but one law to obey, which is: 'Behave Yourself,' so it is
easy for them to abide by this Law, and you'll notice they behave very
well. But it is time for us to be off, and I am eager to start because
I suppose that that poor Munchkin girl is anxiously awaiting my coming."

"She's waited a long time already, seems to me," remarked the
Scarecrow, as they left the grounds of the castle and followed a path
that led eastward.

"True," replied the Tin Woodman; "but I've noticed that the last end of
a wait, however long it has been, is the hardest to endure; so I must
try to make Nimmie Amee happy as soon as possible."

"Ah; that proves you have a Kind heart," remarked the Scarecrow,
approvingly.

"It's too bad he hasn't a Loving Heart," said Woot. "This Tin Man is
going to marry a nice girl through kindness, and not because he loves
her, and somehow that doesn't seem quite right."

"Even so, I am not sure it isn't best for the girl," said the
Scarecrow, who seemed very intelligent for a straw man, "for a loving
husband is not always kind, while a kind husband is sure to make any
girl content."

"Nimmie Amee will become an Empress!" announced the Tin Woodman,
proudly. "I shall have a tin gown made for her, with tin ruffles and
tucks on it, and she shall have tin slippers, and tin earrings and
bracelets, and wear a tin crown on her head. I am sure that will
delight Nimmie Amee, for all girls are fond of finery."

"Are we going to the Munchkin Country by way of the Emerald City?"
inquired the Scarecrow, who looked upon the Tin Woodman as the leader
of the party.

"I think not," was the reply. "We are engaged upon a rather delicate
adventure, for we are seeking a girl who fears her former lover has
forgotten her. It will be rather hard for me, you must admit, when I
confess to Nimmie Amee that I have come to marry her because it is my
duty to do so, and therefore the fewer witnesses there are to our
meeting the better for both of us. After I have found Nimmie Amee and
she has managed to control her joy at our reunion, I shall take her to
the Emerald City and introduce her to Ozma and Dorothy, and to Betsy
Bobbin and Tiny Trot, and all our other friends; but, if I remember
rightly, poor Nimmie Amee has a sharp tongue when angry, and she may be
a trifle angry with me, at first, because I have been so long in coming
to her."

"I can understand that," said Woot gravely. "But how can we get to that
part of the Munchkin Country where you once lived without passing
through the Emerald City?"

"Why, that is easy," the Tin Man assured him.

"I have a map of Oz in my pocket," persisted the boy, "and it shows
that the Winkie Country, where we now are, is at the west of Oz, and
the Munchkin Country at the east, while directly between them lies the
Emerald City."

"True enough; but we shall go toward the north, first of all, into the
Gillikin Country, and so pass around the Emerald City," explained the
Tin Woodman.

"That may prove a dangerous journey," replied the boy. "I used to live
in one of the top corners of the Gillikin Country, near to Oogaboo, and
I have been told that in this northland country are many people whom it
is not pleasant to meet. I was very careful to avoid them during my
journey south."

"A Wanderer should have no fear," observed the Scarecrow, who was
wobbling along in a funny, haphazard manner, but keeping pace with his
friends.

"Fear does not make one a coward," returned Woot, growing a little red
in the face, "but I believe it is more easy to avoid danger than to
overcome it. The safest way is the best way, even for one who is brave
and determined."

"Do not worry, for we shall not go far to the north," said the Emperor.
"My one idea is to avoid the Emerald City without going out of our way
more than is necessary. Once around the Emerald City we will turn south
into the Munchkin Country, where the Scarecrow and I are well
acquainted and have many friends."

"I have traveled some in the Gillikin Country," remarked the Scarecrow,
"and while I must say I have met some strange people there at times, I
have never yet been harmed by them."

"Well, it's all the same to me," said Woot, with assumed carelessness.
"Dangers, when they cannot be avoided, are often quite interesting, and
I am willing to go wherever you two venture to go."

So they left the path they had been following and began to travel
toward the northeast, and all that day they were in the pleasant Winkie
Country, and all the people they met saluted the Emperor with great
respect and wished him good luck on his journey. At night they stopped
at a house where they were well entertained and where Woot was given a
comfortable bed to sleep in.

"Were the Scarecrow and I alone," said the Tin Woodman, "we would
travel by night as well as by day; but with a meat person in our party,
we must halt at night to permit him to rest."

"Meat tires, after a day's travel," added the Scarecrow, "while straw
and tin never tire at all. Which proves," said he, "that we are
somewhat superior to people made in the common way."

Woot could not deny that he was tired, and he slept soundly until
morning, when he was given a good breakfast, smoking hot.

"You two miss a great deal by not eating," he said to his companions.

"It is true," responded the Scarecrow. "We miss suffering from hunger,
when food cannot be had, and we miss a stomachache, now and then."

As he said this, the Scarecrow glanced at the Tin Woodman, who nodded
his assent.

All that second day they traveled steadily, entertaining one another
the while with stories of adventures they had formerly met and
listening to the Scarecrow recite poetry. He had learned a great many
poems from Professor Wogglebug and loved to repeat them whenever
anybody would listen to him. Of course Woot and the Tin Woodman now
listened, because they could not do otherwise--unless they rudely ran
away from their stuffed comrade. One of the Scarecrow's recitations was
like this:

    "What sound is so sweet
    As the straw from the wheat
  When it crunkles so tender and low?
    It is yellow and bright,
    So it gives me delight
  To crunkle wherever I go.

    "Sweet, fresh, golden Straw!
    There is surely no flaw
  In a stuffing so clean and compact.
    It creaks when I walk,
    And it thrills when I talk,
  And its fragrance is fine, for a fact.
    "To cut me don't hurt,

    For I've no blood to squirt,
  And I therefore can suffer no pain;
    The straw that I use
    Doesn't lump up or bruise,
  Though it's pounded again and again!

    "I know it is said
    That my beautiful head
  Has brains of mixed wheat-straw and bran,
    But my thoughts are so good
    I'd not change, if I could,
  For the brains of a common meat man.

    "Content with my lot,
    I'm glad that I'm not
  Like others I meet day by day;
    If my insides get musty,
    Or mussed-up, or dusty,
  I get newly stuffed right away."




Chapter Four

The Loons of Loonville


Toward evening, the travelers found there was no longer a path to guide
them, and the purple hues of the grass and trees warned them that they
were now in the Country of the Gillikins, where strange peoples dwelt
in places that were quite unknown to the other inhabitants of Oz. The
fields were wild and uncultivated and there were no houses of any sort
to be seen. But our friends kept on walking even after the sun went
down, hoping to find a good place for Woot the Wanderer to sleep; but
when it grew quite dark and the boy was weary with his long walk, they
halted right in the middle of a field and allowed Woot to get his
supper from the food he carried in his knapsack. Then the Scarecrow
laid himself down, so that Woot could use his stuffed body as a pillow,
and the Tin Woodman stood up beside them all night, so the dampness of
the ground might not rust his joints or dull his brilliant polish.
Whenever the dew settled on his body he carefully wiped it off with a
cloth, and so in the morning the Emperor shone as brightly as ever in
the rays of the rising sun.

They wakened the boy at daybreak, the Scarecrow saying to him:

"We have discovered something queer, and therefore we must counsel
together what to do about it."

"What have you discovered?" asked Woot, rubbing the sleep from his eyes
with his knuckles and giving three wide yawns to prove he was fully
awake.

"A Sign," said the Tin Woodman. "A Sign, and another path."

"What does the Sign say?" inquired the boy.

"It says that 'All Strangers are Warned not to Follow this Path to
Loonville,'" answered the Scarecrow, who could read very well when his
eyes had been freshly painted.

"In that case," said the boy, opening his knapsack to get some
breakfast, "let us travel in some other direction."

But this did not seem to please either of his companions.

"I'd like to see what Loonville looks like," remarked the Tin Woodman.

"When one travels, it is foolish to miss any interesting sight," added
the Scarecrow.

"But a warning means danger," protested Woot the Wanderer, "and I
believe it sensible to keep out of danger whenever we can."

They made no reply to this speech for a while. Then said the Scarecrow:

"I have escaped so many dangers, during my lifetime, that I am not much
afraid of anything that can happen."

"Nor am I!" exclaimed the Tin Woodman, swinging his glittering axe
around his tin head, in a series of circles. "Few things can injure
tin, and my axe is a powerful weapon to use against a foe. But our boy
friend," he continued, looking solemnly at Woot, "might perhaps be
injured if the people of Loonville are really dangerous; so I propose
he waits here while you and I, Friend Scarecrow, visit the forbidden
City of Loonville."

"Don't worry about me," advised Woot, calmly. "Wherever you wish to go,
I will go, and share your dangers. During my wanderings I have found it
more wise to keep out of danger than to venture in, but at that time I
was alone, and now I have two powerful friends to protect me."

So, when he had finished his breakfast, they all set out along the path
that led to Loonville.

"It is a place I have never heard of before," remarked the Scarecrow,
as they approached a dense forest. "The inhabitants may be people, of
some sort, or they may be animals, but whatever they prove to be, we
will have an interesting story to relate to Dorothy and Ozma on our
return."

The path led into the forest, but the big trees grew so closely
together and the vines and underbrush were so thick and matted that
they had to clear a path at each step in order to proceed. In one or
two places the Tin Man, who went first to clear the way, cut the
branches with a blow of his axe. Woot followed next, and last of the
three came the Scarecrow, who could not have kept the path at all had
not his comrades broken the way for his straw-stuffed body.

Presently the Tin Woodman pushed his way through some heavy underbrush,
and almost tumbled headlong into a vast cleared space in the forest.
The clearing was circular, big and roomy, yet the top branches of the
tall trees reached over and formed a complete dome or roof for it.
Strangely enough, it was not dark in this immense natural chamber in
the woodland, for the place glowed with a soft, white light that seemed
to come from some unseen source.

In the chamber were grouped dozens of queer creatures, and these so
astonished the Tin Man that Woot had to push his metal body aside, that
he might see, too. And the Scarecrow pushed Woot aside, so that the
three travelers stood in a row, staring with all their eyes.

The creatures they beheld were round and ball-like; round in body,
round in legs and arms, round in hands and feet and round of head.  The
only exception to the roundness was a slight hollow on the top of each
head, making it saucer-shaped instead of dome-shaped. They wore no
clothes on their puffy bodies, nor had they any hair. Their skins were
all of a light gray color, and their eyes were mere purple spots. Their
noses were as puffy as the rest of them.

"Are they rubber, do you think?" asked the Scarecrow, who noticed that
the creatures bounded, as they moved, and seemed almost as light as air.

"It is difficult to tell what they are," answered Woot, "they seem to
be covered with warts."

The Loons--for so these folks were called--had been doing many things,
some playing together, some working at tasks and some gathered in
groups to talk; but at the sound of strange voices, which echoed rather
loudly through the clearing, all turned in the direction of the
intruders.  Then, in a body, they all rushed forward, running and
bounding with tremendous speed.

The Tin Woodman was so surprised by this sudden dash that he had no
time to raise his axe before the Loons were on them. The creatures
swung their puffy hands, which looked like boxing-gloves, and pounded
the three travelers as hard as they could, on all sides. The blows were
quite soft and did not hurt our friends at all, but the onslaught quite
bewildered them, so that in a brief period all three were knocked over
and fell flat upon the ground. Once down, many of the Loons held them,
to prevent their getting up again, while others wound long tendrils of
vines about them, binding their arms and legs to their bodies and so
rendering them helpless.

"Aha!" cried the biggest Loon of all; "we've got 'em safe; so let's
carry 'em to King Bal and have 'em tried, and condemned and
perforated!" They had to drag their captives to the center of the domed
chamber, for their weight, as compared with that of the Loons,
prevented their being carried. Even the Scarecrow was much heavier than
the puffy Loons. But finally the party halted before a raised platform,
on which stood a sort of throne, consisting of a big, wide chair with a
string tied to one arm of it. This string led upward to the roof of the
dome.

Arranged before the platform, the prisoners were allowed to sit up,
facing the empty throne.

"Good!" said the big Loon who had commanded the party. "Now to get King
Bal to judge these terrible creatures we have so bravely captured."

As he spoke he took hold of the string and began to pull as hard as he
could. One or two of the others helped him and pretty soon, as they
drew in the cord, the leaves above them parted and a Loon appeared at
the other end of the string. It didn't take long to draw him down to
the throne, where he seated himself and was tied in, so he wouldn't
float upward again.

"Hello," said the King, blinking his purple eyes at his followers;
"what's up now!"

"Strangers, your Majesty--strangers and captives," replied the big
Loon, pompously.

"Dear me!  I see 'em. I see 'em very plainly," exclaimed the King, his
purple eyes bulging out as he looked at the three prisoners. "What
curious animals! Are they dangerous, do you think, my good Panta?"

"I'm 'fraid so, your Majesty. Of course, they may not be dangerous, but
we mustn't take chances. Enough accidents happen to us poor Loons as it
is, and my advice is to condemn and perforate 'em as quickly as
possible."

"Keep your advice to yourself," said the monarch, in a peeved tone.
"Who's King here, anyhow? You or Me?"

"We made you our King because you have less common sense than the rest
of us," answered Panta Loon, indignantly. "I could have been King
myself, had I wanted to, but I didn't care for the hard work and
responsibility."

As he said this, the big Loon strutted back and forth in the space
between the throne of King Bal and the prisoners, and the other Loons
seemed much impressed by his defiance. But suddenly there came a sharp
report and Panta Loon instantly disappeared, to the great astonishment
of the Scarecrow, the Tin Woodman and Woot the Wanderer, who saw on the
spot where the big fellow had stood a little heap of flabby, wrinkled
skin that looked like a collapsed rubber balloon.

"There!" exclaimed the King; "I expected that would happen. The
conceited rascal wanted to puff himself up until he was bigger than the
rest of you, and this is the result of his folly. Get the pump working,
some of you, and blow him up again."

"We will have to mend the puncture first, your Majesty," suggested one
of the Loons, and the prisoners noticed that none of them seemed
surprised or shocked at the sad accident to Panta.

"All right," grumbled the King. "Fetch Til to mend him."

One or two ran away and presently returned, followed by a lady Loon
wearing huge, puffed-up rubber skirts. Also she had a purple feather
fastened to a wart on the top of her head, and around her waist was a
sash of fibre-like vines, dried and tough, that looked like strings.

"Get to work, Til," commanded King Bal. "Panta has just exploded."

The lady Loon picked up the bunch of skin and examined it carefully
until she discovered a hole in one foot. Then she pulled a strand of
string from her sash, and drawing the edges of the hole together, she
tied them fast with the string, thus making one of those curious warts
which the strangers had noticed on so many Loons. Having done this, Til
Loon tossed the bit of skin to the other Loons and was about to go away
when she noticed the prisoners and stopped to inspect them.

"Dear me!" said Til; "what dreadful creatures. Where did they come
from?"

"We captured them," replied one of the Loons.

"And what are we going to do with them?" inquired the girl Loon.

"Perhaps we'll condemn 'em and puncture 'em," answered the King.

"Well," said she, still eyeing the  "I'm not sure they'll puncture.
Let's try it, and see."

One of the Loons ran to the forest's edge and quickly returned with a
long, sharp thorn. He glanced at the King, who nodded his head in
assent, and then he rushed forward and stuck the thorn into the leg of
the Scarecrow. The Scarecrow merely smiled and said nothing, for the
thorn didn't hurt him at all.

Then the Loon tried to prick the Tin Woodman's leg, but the tin only
blunted the point of the thorn.

"Just as I thought," said Til, blinking her purple eyes and shaking her
puffy head; but just then the Loon stuck the thorn into the leg of Woot
the Wanderer, and while it had been blunted somewhat, it was still
sharp enough to hurt.

"Ouch!" yelled Woot, and kicked out his leg with so much energy that
the frail bonds that tied him burst apart. His foot caught the
Loon--who was leaning over him--full on his puffy stomach, and sent him
shooting up into the air. When he was high over their heads he exploded
with a loud "pop" and his skin fell to the ground.

"I really believe," said the King, rolling his spotlike eyes in a
frightened way, "that Panta was right in claiming these prisoners are
dangerous. Is the pump ready?"

Some of the Loons had wheeled a big machine in front of the throne and
now took Panta's skin and began to pump air into it. Slowly it swelled
out until the King cried "Stop!"

"No, no!" yelled Panta, "I'm not big enough yet."

"You're as big as you're going to be," declared the King. "Before you
exploded you were bigger than the rest of us, and that caused you to
be proud and overbearing. Now you're a little smaller than the rest,
and you will last longer and be more humble."

"Pump me up--pump me up!" wailed Panta "If you don't you'll break my
heart."

"If we do we'll break your skin," replied the King.

So the Loons stopped pumping air into Panta, and pushed him away from
the pump. He was certainly more humble than before his accident, for he
crept into the background and said nothing more.

"Now pump up the other one," ordered the King. Til had already mended
him, and the Loons set to work to pump him full of air.

During these last few moments none had paid much attention to the
prisoners, so Woot, finding his legs free, crept over to the Tin
Woodman and rubbed the bonds that were still around his arms and body
against the sharp edge of the axe, which quickly cut them.

The boy was now free, and the thorn which the Loon had stuck into his
leg was lying unnoticed on the ground, where the creature had dropped
it when he exploded. Woot leaned forward and picked up the thorn, and
while the Loons were busy watching the pump, the boy sprang to his feet
and suddenly rushed upon the group.

"Pop"--"pop"--"pop!" went three of the Loons, when the Wanderer pricked
them with his thorn, and at the sounds the others looked around and saw
their danger. With yells of fear they bounded away in all directions,
scattering about the clearing, with Woot the Wanderer in full chase.
While they could run much faster than the boy, they often stumbled and
fell, or got in one another's way, so he managed to catch several and
prick them with his thorn.

It astonished him to see how easily the Loons exploded. When the air
was let out of them they were quite helpless. Til Loon was one of those
who ran against his thorn and many others suffered the same fate. The
creatures could not escape from the enclosure, but in their fright many
bounded upward and caught branches of the trees, and then climbed out
of reach of the dreaded thorn.

Woot was getting pretty tired chasing them, so he stopped and came
over, panting, to where his friends were sitting, still bound.

"Very well done, my Wanderer," said the Tin Woodman. "It is evident
that we need fear these puffed-up creatures no longer, so be kind
enough to unfasten our bonds and we will proceed upon our journey."

Woot untied the bonds of the Scarecrow and helped him to his feet. Then
he freed the Tin Woodman, who got up without help. Looking around them,
they saw that the only Loon now remaining within reach was Bal Loon,
the King, who had remained seated in his throne, watching the
punishment of his people with a bewildered look in his purple eyes.

"Shall I puncture the King?" the boy asked his companions.

King Bal must have overheard the question, for he fumbled with the cord
that fastened him to the throne and managed to release it. Then he
floated upward until he reached the leafy dome, and parting the
branches he disappeared from sight. But the string that was tied to his
body was still connected with the arm of the throne, and they knew they
could pull his Majesty down again, if they wanted to.

"Let him alone," suggested the Scarecrow. "He seems a good enough king
for his peculiar people, and after we are gone, the Loons will have
something of a job to pump up all those whom Woot has punctured."

"Every one of them ought to be exploded," declared Woot, who was angry
because his leg still hurt him.

"No," said the Tin Woodman, "that would not be just fair. They were
quite right to capture us, because we had no business to intrude here,
having been warned to keep away from Loonville. This is their country,
not ours, and since the poor things can't get out of the clearing, they
can harm no one save those who venture here out of curiosity, as we
did."

"Well said, my friend," agreed tile Scarecrow. "We really had no right
to disturb their peace and comfort; so let us go away."

They easily found the place where they had forced their way into the
enclosure, so the Tin Woodman pushed aside the underbrush and started
first along the path. The Scarecrow followed next and last came Woot,
who looked back and saw that the Loons were still clinging to their
perches on the trees and watching their former captives with frightened
eyes.

"I guess they're glad to see the last of us," remarked the boy, and
laughing at the happy ending of the adventure, he followed his comrades
along the path.




Chapter Five

Mrs. Yoop, the Giantess


When they had reached the end of the path, where they had first seen
the warning sign, they set off across the country in an easterly
direction. Before long they reached Rolling Lands, which were a
succession of hills and valleys where constant climbs and descents were
required, and their journey now became tedious, because on climbing
each hill, they found before them nothing in the valley below it except
grass, or weeds or stones.

Up and down they went for hours, with nothing to relieve the monotony
of the landscape, until finally, when they had topped a higher hill
than usual, they discovered a cup-shaped valley before them in the
center of which stood an enormous castle, built of purple stone.  The
castle was high and broad and long, but had no turrets and towers. So
far as they could see, there was but one small window and one big door
on each side of the great building.

"This is strange!" mused the Scarecrow. "I'd no idea such a big castle
existed in this Gillikin Country. I wonder who lives here?"

"It seems to me, from this distance," remarked the Tin Woodman, "that
it's the biggest castle I ever saw. It is really too big for any use,
and no one could open or shut those big doors without a stepladder."

"Perhaps, if we go nearer, we shall find out whether anybody lives
there or not," suggested Woot. "Looks to me as if nobody lived there."

On they went, and when they reached the center of the valley, where the
great stone castle stood, it was beginning to grow dark. So they
hesitated as to what to do.

"If friendly people happen to live here," said Woot. "I shall be glad
of a bed; but should enemies occupy the place, I prefer to sleep upon
the ground."

"And if no one at all lives here," added the Scarecrow, "we can enter,
and take possession, and make ourselves at home."

While speaking he went nearer to one of the great doors, which was
three times as high and broad as any he had ever seen in a house
before, and then he discovered, engraved in big letters upon a stone
over the doorway, the words:

    "YOOP CASTLE"

"Oho!" he exclaimed; "I know the place now. This was probably the home
of Mr. Yoop, a terrible giant whom I have seen confined in a cage, a
long way from here. Therefore this castle is likely to be empty and we
may use it in any way we please."

"Yes, yes," said the Tin Emperor, nodding; "I also remember Mr. Yoop.
But how are we to get into his deserted castle? The latch of the door
is so far above our heads that none of us can reach it."

They considered this problem for a while, and then Woot said to the Tin
Man:

"If I stand upon your shoulders, I think I can unlatch the door."

"Climb up, then," was the reply, and when the boy was perched upon the
tin shoulders of Nick Chopper, he was just able to reach the latch and
raise it.

At once the door swung open, its great hinges making a groaning sound
as if in protest, so Woot leaped down and followed his companions into
a big, bare hallway. Scarcely were the three inside, however, when they
heard the door slam shut behind them, and this astonished them because
no one had touched it. It had closed of its own accord, as if by magic.
Moreover, the latch was on the outside, and the thought occurred to
each one of them that they were now prisoners in this unknown castle.

"However," mumbled the Scarecrow, "we are not to blame for what cannot
be helped; so let us push bravely ahead and see what may be seen."

It was quite dark in the hallway, now that the outside door was shut,
so as they stumbled along a stone passage they kept close together, not
knowing what danger was likely to befall them.

Suddenly a soft glow enveloped them. It grew brighter, until they could
see their surroundings distinctly. They had reached the end of the
passage and before them was another huge door. This noiselessly swung
open before them, without the help of anyone, and through the doorway
they observed a big chamber, the walls of which were lined with plates
of pure gold, highly polished.

This room was also lighted, although they could discover no lamps, and
in the center of it was a great table at which sat an immense woman.
She was clad in silver robes embroidered with gay floral designs, and
wore over this splendid raiment a short apron of elaborate lace-work.
Such an apron was no protection, and was not in keeping with the
handsome gown, but the huge woman wore it, nevertheless. The table at
which she sat was spread with a white cloth and had golden dishes upon
it, so the travelers saw that they had surprised the Giantess while she
was eating her supper.

She had her back toward them and did not even turn around, but taking a
biscuit from a dish she began to butter it and said in a voice that was
big and deep but not especially unpleasant:

"Why don't you come in and allow the door to shut? You're causing a
draught, and I shall catch cold and sneeze. When I sneeze, I get cross,
and when I get cross I'm liable to do something wicked. Come in, you
foolish strangers; come in!"

Being thus urged, they entered the room and approached the table, until
they stood where they faced the great Giantess. She continued eating,
but smiled in a curious way as she looked at them. Woot noticed that
the door had closed silently after they had entered, and that didn't
please him at all.

"Well," said the Giantess, "what excuse have you to offer?"

"We didn't know anyone lived here, Madam," explained the Scarecrow;
"so, being travelers and strangers in these parts, and wishing to find
a place for our boy friend to sleep, we ventured to enter your castle."

"You knew it was private property, I suppose?" said she, buttering
another biscuit.

"We saw the words, 'Yoop Castle,' over the door, but we knew that Mr.
Yoop is a prisoner in a cage in a far-off part of the land of Oz, so we
decided there was no one now at home and that we might use the castle
for the night."

"I see," remarked the Giantess, nodding her head and smiling again in
that curious way--a way that made Woot shudder. "You didn't know that
Mr. Yoop was married, or that after he was cruelly captured his wife
still lived in his castle and ran it to suit herself."

"Who captured Mr. Yoop?" asked Woot, looking gravely at the big woman.

"Wicked enemies. People who selfishly objected to Yoop's taking their
cows and sheep for his food. I must admit, however, that Yoop had a bad
temper, and had the habit of knocking over a few houses, now and then,
when he was angry. So one day the little folks came in a great crowd
and captured Mr. Yoop, and carried him away to a cage somewhere in the
mountains. I don't know where it is, and I don't care, for my husband
treated me badly at times, forgetting the respect a giant owes to a
giantess. Often he kicked me on my shins, when I wouldn't wait on him.
So I'm glad he is gone."

"It's a wonder the people didn't capture you, too," remarked Woot.

"Well, I was too clever for them," said she, giving a sudden laugh that
caused such a breeze that the wobbly Scarecrow was almost blown off his
feet and had to grab his friend Nick Chopper to steady himself. "I saw
the people coining," continued Mrs. Yoop, "and knowing they meant
mischief I transformed myself into a mouse and hid in a cupboard. After
they had gone away, carrying my shin-kicking husband with them, I
transformed myself back to my former shape again, and here I've lived
in peace and comfort ever since."

"Are you a Witch, then?" inquired Woot.

"Well, not exactly a Witch," she replied, "but I'm an Artist in
Transformations. In other words, I'm more of a Yookoohoo than a Witch,
and of course you know that the Yookoohoos are the cleverest
magic-workers in the world."

The travelers were silent for a time, uneasily considering this
statement and the effect it might have on their future. No doubt the
Giantess had wilfully made them her prisoners; yet she spoke so
cheerfully, in her big voice, that until now they had not been alarmed
in the least.

By and by the Scarecrow, whose mixed brains had been working steadily,
asked the woman:

"Are we to consider you our friend, Mrs. Yoop, or do you intend to be
our enemy?"

"I never have friends," she said in a matter-of-fact tone, "because
friends get too familiar and always forget to mind their own business.
But I am not your enemy; not yet, anyhow. Indeed, I'm glad you've come,
for my life here is rather lonely. I've had no one to talk to since I
transformed Polychrome, the Daughter of the Rainbow, into a
canary-bird."

"How did you manage to do that?" asked the Tin Woodman, in amazement.
"Polychrome is a powerful fairy!"

"She was," said the Giantess; "but now she's a canary-bird. One day
after a rain, Polychrome danced off the Rainbow and fell asleep on a
little mound in this valley, not far from my castle. The sun came out
and drove the Rainbow away, and before Poly wakened, I stole out and
transformed her into a canary-bird in a gold cage studded with
diamonds. The cage was so she couldn't fly away. I expected she'd sing
and talk and we'd have good times together; but she has proved no
company for me at all. Ever since the moment of her transformation, she
has refused to speak a single word."

"Where is she now?" inquired Woot, who had heard tales of lovely
Polychrome and was much interested in her.

"The cage is hanging up in my bedroom," said the Giantess, eating
another biscuit. The travelers were now  more uneasy and suspicious of
the Giantess than before. If Polychrome, the Rainbow's Daughter, who
was a real fairy, had been transformed and enslaved by this huge woman,
who claimed to be a Yookoohoo, what was liable to happen to them? Said
the Scarecrow, twisting his stuffed head around in Mrs. Yoop's
direction:

"Do you know, Ma'am, who we are?"

"Of course," said she; "a straw man, a tin man and a boy."

"We are very important people," declared the Tin Woodman.

"All the better," she replied. "I shall enjoy your society the more on
that account. For I mean to keep you here as long as I live, to amuse
me when I get lonely. And," she added slowly, "in this Valley no one
ever dies."

They didn't like this speech at all, so the Scarecrow frowned in a way
that made Mrs. Yoop smile, while the Tin Woodman looked so fierce that
Mrs. Yoop laughed. The Scarecrow suspected she was going to laugh, so
he slipped behind his friends to escape the wind from her breath.  From
this safe position he said warningly:

"We have powerful friends who will soon come to rescue us."

"Let them come," she returned, with an accent of scorn. "When they get
here they will find neither a boy, nor a tin man, nor a scarecrow, for
tomorrow morning I intend to transform you all into other shapes, so
that you cannot be recognized."

This threat filled them with dismay. The good-natured Giantess was more
terrible than they had imagined. She could smile and wear pretty
clothes and at the same time be even more cruel than her wicked husband
had been.

Both the Scarecrow and the Tin Woodman tried to think of some way to
escape from the castle before morning, but she seemed to read their
thoughts and shook her head.

"Don't worry your poor brains," said she. "You can't escape me, however
hard you try. But why should you wish to escape? I shall give you new
forms that are much better than the ones you now have. Be contented
with your fate, for discontent leads to unhappiness, and unhappiness,
in any form, is the greatest evil that can befall you."

"What forms do you intend to give us?" asked Woot earnestly.

"I haven't decided, as yet. I'll dream over it tonight, so in the
morning I shall have made up my mind how to transform you. Perhaps
you'd prefer to choose your own transformations?"

"No," said Woot, "I prefer to remain as I am."

"That's funny," she retorted. "You are little, and you're weak; as you
are, you're not much account, anyhow. The best thing about you is that
you're alive, for I shall be able to make of you some sort of live
creature which will be a great improvement on your present form."

She took another biscuit from a plate and dipped it in a pot of honey
and calmly began eating it.

The Scarecrow watched her thoughtfully.

"There are no fields of grain in your Valley," said he; "where, then,
did you get the flour to make your biscuits?"

"Mercy me! do you think I'd bother to make biscuits out of flour?" she
replied. "That is altogether too tedious a process for a Yookoohoo. I
set some traps this afternoon and caught a lot of field-mice, but as I
do not like to eat mice, I transformed them into hot biscuits for my
supper. The honey in this pot was once a wasp's nest, but since being
transformed it has become sweet and delicious. All I need do, when I
wish to eat, is to take something I don't care to keep, and transform
it into any sort of food I like, and eat it. Are you hungry?"

"I don't eat, thank you," said the Scarecrow.

"Nor do I," said the Tin Woodman.

"I have still a little natural food in my knapsack," said Woot the
Wanderer, "and I'd rather eat that than any wasp's nest."

"Every one to his taste," said the Giantess carelessly, and having now
finished her supper she rose to her feet, clapped her hands together,
and the supper table at once disappeared.




Chapter Six

The Magic of a Yookoohoo


Woot had seen very little of magic during his wanderings, while the
Scarecrow and the Tin Woodman had seen a great deal of many sorts in
their lives, yet all three were greatly impressed by Mrs. Yoop's
powers. She did not affect any mysterious airs or indulge in chants or
mystic rites, as most witches do, nor was the Giantess old and ugly or
disagreeable in face or manner. Nevertheless, she frightened her
prisoners more than any witch could have done.

"Please be seated," she said to them, as she sat herself down in a
great arm-chair and spread her beautiful embroidered skirts for them to
admire. But all the chairs in the room were so high that our friends
could not climb to the seats of them. Mrs. Yoop observed this and waved
her hand, when instantly a golden ladder appeared leaning against a
chair opposite her own.

"Climb up," said she, and they obeyed, the Tin Man and the boy
assisting the more clumsy Scarecrow. When they were all seated in a row
on the cushion of the chair, the Giantess continued: "Now tell me how
you happened to travel in this direction, and where you came from and
what your errand is."

So the Tin Woodman told her all about Nimmie Amee, and how he had
decided to find her and marry her, although he had no Loving Heart. The
story seemed to amuse the big woman, who then began to ask the
Scarecrow questions and for the first time in her life heard of Ozma of
Oz, and of Dorothy and Jack Pumpkinhead and Dr. Pipt and Tik-tok and
many other Oz people who are well known in the Emerald City. Also Woot
had to tell his story, which was very simple and did not take long. The
Giantess laughed heartily when the boy related their adventure at
Loonville, but said she knew nothing of the Loons because she never
left her Valley.

"There are wicked people who would like to capture me, as they did my
giant husband, Mr. Yoop," said she; "so I stay at home and mind my own
business."

"If Ozma knew that you dared to work magic without her consent, she
would punish you severely," declared the Scarecrow, "for this castle is
in the Land of Oz, and no persons in the Land of Oz are permitted to
work magic except Glinda the Good and the little Wizard who lives with
Ozma in the Emerald City."

"That for your Ozma!" exclaimed the Giantess, snapping her fingers in
derision. "What do I care for a girl whom I have never seen and who has
never seen me?"

"But Ozma is a fairy," said the Tin Woodman, "and therefore she is very
powerful. Also, we are under Ozma's protection, and to injure us in any
way would make her extremely angry."

"What I do here, in my own private castle in this secluded
Valley--where no one comes but fools like you--can never be known to
your fairy Ozma," returned the Giantess. "Do not seek to frighten me
from my purpose, and do not allow yourselves to be frightened, for it
is best to meet bravely what cannot be avoided. I am now going to bed,
and in the morning I will give you all new forms, such as will be more
interesting to me than the ones you now wear. Good night, and pleasant
dreams."

Saying this, Mrs. Yoop rose from her chair and walked through a doorway
into another room. So heavy was the tread of the Giantess that even the
walls of the big stone castle trembled as she stepped. She closed the
door of her bedroom behind her, and then suddenly the light went out
and the three prisoners found themselves in total darkness.

The Tin Woodman and the Scarecrow didn't mind the dark at all, but Woot
the Wanderer felt worried to be left in this strange place in this
strange manner, without being able to see any danger that might
threaten.

"The big woman might have given me a bed, anyhow," he said to his
companions, and scarcely had he spoken when he felt something press
against his legs, which were then dangling from the seat of the chair.
Leaning down, he put out his hand and found that a bedstead had
appeared, with mattress, sheets and covers, all complete. He lost no
time in slipping down upon the bed and was soon fast asleep.

During the night the Scarecrow and the Emperor talked in low tones
together, and they got out of the chair and moved all about the room,
feeling for some hidden spring that might open a door or window and
permit them to escape.

Morning found them still unsuccessful in the quest and as soon as it
was daylight Woot's bed suddenly disappeared, and he dropped to the
floor with a thump that quickly wakened him. And after a time the
Giantess came from her bedroom, wearing another dress that was quite as
elaborate as the one in which she had been attired the evening before,
and also wearing the pretty lace apron. Having seated herself in a
chair, she said:

"I'm hungry; so I'll have breakfast at once."

She clapped her hands together and instantly the table appeared before
her, spread with snowy linen and laden with golden dishes. But there
was no food upon the table, nor anything else except a pitcher of
water, a bundle of weeds and a handful of pebbles. But the Giantess
poured some water into her coffee-pot, patted it once or twice with her
hand, and then poured out a cupful of steaming hot coffee.

"Would you like some?" she asked Woot.

He was suspicious of magic coffee, but it smelled so good that he could
not resist it; so he answered: "If you please, Madam."

The Giantess poured out another cup and set it on the floor for Woot.
It was as big as a tub, and the golden spoon in the saucer beside the
cup was so heavy the boy could scarcely lift it. But Woot managed to
get a sip of the coffee and found it delicious.

Mrs. Yoop next transformed the weeds into a dish of oatmeal, which she
ate with good appetite.

"Now, then," said she, picking up the pebbles. "I'm wondering whether I
shall have fish-balls or lamb-chops to complete my meal. Which would
you prefer, Woot the Wanderer?"

"If you please, I'll eat the food in my knapsack," answered the boy.
"Your magic food might taste good, but I'm afraid of it."

The woman laughed at his fears and transformed the pebbles into
fish-balls.

"I suppose you think that after you had eaten this food it would turn
to stones again and make you sick," she remarked; "but that would be
impossible. Nothing I transform ever gets back to its former shape
again, so these fish-balls can never more be pebbles. That is why I
have to be careful of my transformations," she added, busily eating
while she talked, "for while I can change forms at will I can never
change them back again--which proves that even the powers of a clever
Yookoohoo are limited. When I have transformed you three people, you
must always wear the shapes that I have given you."

"Then please don't transform us," begged Woot, "for we are quite
satisfied to remain as we are."

"I am not expecting to satisfy you, but intend to please myself," she
declared, "and my pleasure is to give you new shapes. For, if by chance
your friends came in search of you, not one of them would be able to
recognize you."

Her tone was so positive that they knew it would be useless to protest.
The woman was not unpleasant to look at; her face was not cruel; her
voice was big but gracious in tone; but her words showed that she
possessed a merciless heart and no pleadings would alter her wicked
purpose.

Mrs. Yoop took ample time to finish her breakfast and the prisoners had
no desire to hurry her, but finally the meal was concluded and she
folded her napkin and made the table disappear by clapping her hands
together. Then she turned to her captives and said:

"The next thing on the programme is to change your forms."

"Have you decided what forms to give us?" asked the Scarecrow, uneasily.

"Yes; I dreamed it all out while I was asleep. This Tin Man seems a
very solemn person "--indeed, the Tin Woodman was looking solemn, just
then, for he was greatly disturbed--"so I shall change him into an Owl."

All she did was to point one finger at him as she spoke, but
immediately the form of the Tin Woodman began to change and in a few
seconds Nick Chopper, the Emperor of the Winkies, had been transformed
into an Owl, with eyes as big as saucers and a hooked beak and strong
claws.  But he was still tin. He was a Tin Owl, with tin legs and beak
and eyes and feathers. When he flew to the back of a chair and perched
upon it, his tin feathers rattled against one another with a tinny
clatter. The Giantess seemed  much amused by the Tin Owl's appearance,
for her laugh was big and jolly.

"You're not liable to get lost," said she, "for your wings and feathers
will make a racket wherever you go. And, on my word, a Tin Owl is so
rare and pretty that it is an improvement on the ordinary bird. I did
not intend to make you tin, but I forgot to wish you to be meat.
However, tin you were, and tin you are, and as it's too late to change
you, that settles it."

Until now the Scarecrow had rather doubted the possibility of Mrs.
Yoop's being able to transform him, or his friend the Tin Woodman, for
they were not made as ordinary people are. He had worried more over
what might happen to Woot than to himself, but now he began to worry
about himself.

"Madam," he said hastily, "I consider this action very impolite. It may
even be called rude, considering we are your guests."

"You are not guests, for I did not invite you here," she replied.

"Perhaps not; but we craved hospitality. We threw ourselves upon your
mercy, so to speak, and we now find you have no mercy. Therefore, if
you will excuse the expression, I must say it is downright wicked to
take our proper forms away from us and give us others that we do not
care for."

"Are you trying to make me angry?" she asked, frowning.

"By no means," said the Scarecrow; "I'm just trying to make you act
more ladylike."

"Oh, indeed! In my opinion, Mr. Scarecrow, you are now acting like a
bear--so a Bear you shall be!"

Again the dreadful finger pointed, this time in the Scarecrow's
direction, and at once his form began to change. In a few seconds he
had become a small Brown Bear, but he was stuffed with straw as he had
been before, and when the little Brown Bear shuffled across the floor
he was just as wobbly as the Scarecrow had been and moved just as
awkwardly.

Woot was amazed, but he was also thoroughly frightened.

"Did it hurt?" he asked the little Brown Bear.

"No, of course not," growled the Scarecrow in the Bear's form; "but I
don't like walking on four legs; it's undignified."

"Consider my humiliation!" chirped the Tin Owl, trying to settle its
tin feathers smoothly with its tin beak. "And I can't see very well,
either. The light seems to hurt my eyes."

"That's because you are an Owl," said Woot. "I think you will see
better in the dark."

"Well," remarked the Giantess, "I'm very well pleased with these new
forms, for my part, and I'm sure you will like them better when you get
used to them. So now," she added, turning to the boy, "it is your turn."

"Don't you think you'd better leave me as I am?" asked Woot in a
trembling voice.

"No," she replied, "I'm going to make a Monkey of you. I love
monkeys--they're so cute!--and I think a Green Monkey will be lots of
fun and amuse me when I am sad."

Woot shivered, for again the terrible magic finger pointed, and pointed
directly his way. He felt himself changing; not so very much, however,
and it didn't hurt him a bit. He looked down at his limbs and body and
found that his clothes were gone and his skin covered with a fine,
silk-like green fur. His hands and feet were now those of a monkey. He
realized he really was a monkey, and his first feeling was one of
anger. He began to chatter as monkeys do. He bounded to the seat of a
giant chair, and then to its back and with a wild leap sprang upon the
laughing Giantess. His idea was to seize her hair and pull it out by
the roots, and so have revenge for her wicked transformations. But she
raised her hand and said:

"Gently, my dear Monkey--gently!  You're not angry; you're happy as can
be!"

Woot stopped short. No; he wasn't a bit angry now; he felt as
good-humored and gay as ever he did when a boy. Instead of pulling Mrs.
Yoop's hair, he perched on her shoulder and smoothed her soft cheek
with his hairy paw. In return, she smiled at the funny green animal and
patted his head.

"Very good," said the Giantess. "Let us all become friends and be happy
together. How is my Tin Owl feeling?"

"Quite comfortable," said the Owl. "I don't like it, to be sure, but
I'm not going to allow my new form to make me unhappy. But, tell me,
please: what is a Tin Owl good for?"

"You are only good to make me laugh," replied the Giantess.

"Will a stuffed Bear also make you laugh?" inquired the Scarecrow,
sitting back on his haunches to look up at her.

"Of course," declared the Giantess; "and I have added a little magic to
your transformations to make you all contented with wearing your new
forms. I'm sorry I didn't think to do that when I transformed
Polychrome into a Canary-Bird. But perhaps, when she sees how cheerful
you are, she will cease to be silent and sullen and take to singing. I
will go get the bird and let you see her."

With this, Mrs. Yoop went into the next room and soon returned bearing
a golden cage in which sat upon a swinging perch a lovely yellow
Canary. "Polychrome," said the Giantess, "permit me to introduce to you
a Green Monkey, which used to be a boy called Woot the Wanderer, and a
Tin Owl, which used to be a Tin Woodman named Nick Chopper, and a
straw-stuffed little Brown Bear which used to be a live Scarecrow."

"We already know one another," declared the Scarecrow. "The bird is
Polychrome, the Rainbow's Daughter, and she and I used to be good
friends."

"Are you really my old friend, the Scarecrow?" asked; the bird, in a
sweet, low voice.

"There!" cried Mrs. Yoop; "that's the first time she has spoken since
she was transformed."

"I am really your old friend," answered the Scarecrow; "but you must
pardon me for appearing just now in this brutal form."

"I am a bird, as you are, dear Poly," said the Tin Woodman; "but, alas!
a Tin Owl is not as beautiful as a Canary-Bird."

"How dreadful it all is!" sighed the Canary. "Couldn't you manage to
escape from this terrible Yookoohoo?"

"No," answered the Scarecrow, "we tried to escape, but failed. She
first made us her prisoners and then transformed us. But how did she
manage to get you, Polychrome?"

"I was asleep, and she took unfair advantage of me," answered the bird
sadly. "Had I been awake, I could easily have protected myself."

"Tell me," said the Green Monkey earnestly, as he came close to the
cage, "what must we do, Daughter of the Rainbow, to escape from these
transformations? Can't you help us, being a Fairy?"

"At present I am powerless to help even myself," replied the Canary.

"That's the exact truth!" exclaimed the Giantess, who seemed pleased to
hear the bird talk, even though it complained; "you are all helpless
and in my power, so you may as well make up your minds to accept your
fate and be content. Remember that you are transformed for good, since
no magic on earth can break your enchantments. I am now going out for
my morning walk, for each day after breakfast I walk sixteen times
around my castle for exercise. Amuse yourselves while I am gone, and
when I return I hope to find you all reconciled and happy."

So the Giantess walked to the door by which our friends had entered the
great hall and spoke one word: "Open!" Then the door swung open and
after Mrs. Yoop had passed out it closed again with a snap as its
powerful bolts shot into place. The Green Monkey had rushed toward the
opening, hoping to escape, but he was too late and only got a bump on
his nose as the door slammed shut.




Chapter Seven

The Lace Apron


"Now," said the Canary, in a tone more brisk than before, "we may talk
together more freely, as Mrs. Yoop cannot hear us. Perhaps we can
figure out a way to escape."

"Open!" said Woot the Monkey, still facing the door; but his command
had no effect and he slowly rejoined the others.

"You cannot open any door or window in this enchanted castle unless you
are wearing the Magic Apron," said the Canary.

"What Magic Apron do you mean?" asked the Tin Owl, in a curious voice.

"The lace one, which the Giantess always wears. I have been her
prisoner, in this cage, for several weeks, and she hangs my cage in her
bedroom every night, so that she can keep her eye on me," explained
Polychrome the Canary. "Therefore I have discovered that it is the
Magic Apron that opens the doors and windows, and nothing else can move
them. When she goes to bed, Mrs. Yoop hangs her apron on the bedpost,
and one morning she forgot to put it on when she commanded the door to
open, and the door would not move. So then she put on the lace apron
and the door obeyed her. That was how I learned the magic power of the
apron."

"I see--I see!" said the little Brown Bear, wagging his stuffed head.
"Then, if we could get the apron from Mrs. Yoop, we could open the
doors and escape from our prison."

"That is true, and it is the plan I was about to suggest," replied
Polychrome  the  Canary-Bird. "However, I don't believe the Owl could
steal the apron, or even the Bear, but perhaps the Monkey could hide in
her room at night and get the apron while she is asleep."

"I'll try it!" cried Woot the Monkey. "I'll try it this very night, if
I can manage to steal into her bedroom."

"You mustn't think about it, though," warned the bird, "for she can
read your thoughts whenever she cares to do so. And do not forget,
before you escape, to take me with you. Once I am out of the power of
the Giantess, I may discover a way to save us all."

"We won't forget our fairy friend," promised the boy; "but perhaps you
can tell me how to get into the bedroom."

"No," declared Polychrome, "I cannot advise you as to that. You must
watch for a chance, and slip in when Mrs. Yoop isn't looking."

They talked it over for a while longer and then Mrs. Yoop returned.
When she entered, the door opened suddenly, at her command, and closed
as soon as her huge form had passed through the doorway. During that
day she entered her bedroom several times, on one errand or another,
but always she commanded the door to close behind her and her prisoners
found not the slightest chance to leave the big hall in which they were
confined.

The Green Monkey thought it would be wise to make a friend of the big
woman, so as to gain her confidence, so he sat on the back of her chair
and chattered to her while she mended her stockings and sewed silver
buttons on some golden shoes that were as big as row-boats. This
pleased the Giantess and she would pause at times to pat the Monkey's
head. The little Brown Bear curled up in a corner and lay still all
day. The Owl and the Canary found they could converse together in the
bird language, which neither the Giantess nor the Bear nor the Monkey
could understand; so at times they twittered away to each other and
passed the long, dreary day quite cheerfully.

After dinner Mrs. Yoop took a big fiddle from a big cupboard and played
such loud and dreadful music that her prisoners were all thankful when
at last she stopped and said she was going to bed.

After cautioning the Monkey and Bear and Owl to behave themselves
during the night, she picked up the cage containing the Canary and,
going to the door of her bedroom, commanded it to open. Just then,
however, she remembered she had left her fiddle lying upon a table, so
she went back for it and put it away in the cupboard, and while her
back was turned the Green Monkey slipped through the open door into her
bedroom and hid underneath the bed. The Giantess, being sleepy, did not
notice this, and entering her room she made the door close behind her
and then hung the bird-cage on a peg by the window. Then she began to
undress, first taking off the lace apron and laying it over the
bedpost, where it was within easy reach of her hand.

As soon as Mrs. Yoop was in bed the lights all went out, and Woot the
Monkey crouched under the bed and waited patiently until he heard the
Giantess snoring. Then he crept out and in the dark felt around until
he got hold of the apron, which he at once tied around his own waist.

Next, Woot tried to find the Canary, and there was just enough
moonlight showing through the window to enable him to see where the
cage hung; but it was out of his reach. At first he was tempted to
leave Polychrome and escape with his other friends, but remembering his
promise to the Rainbow's Daughter Woot tried to think how to save her.

A chair stood near the window, and this--showing dimly in the
moonlight--gave him an idea. By pushing against it with all his might,
he found he could move the giant chair a few inches at a time. So he
pushed and pushed until the chair was beneath the bird-cage, and then
he sprang noiselessly upon the seat--for his monkey form enabled him to
jump higher than he could do as a boy--and from there to the back of
the chair, and so managed to reach the cage and take it off the peg.
Then down he sprang to the floor and made his way to the door. "Open!"
he commanded, and at once the door obeyed and swung open, But his voice
wakened Mrs. Yoop, who gave a wild cry and sprang out of bed with one
bound. The Green Monkey dashed through the doorway, carrying the cage
with him, and before the Giantess could reach the door it slammed shut
and imprisoned her in her own bed-chamber!

The noise she made, pounding upon the door, and her yells of anger and
dreadful threats of vengeance, filled all our friends with terror, and
Woot the Monkey was so excited that in the dark he could not find the
outer door of the hall. But the Tin Owl could see very nicely in the
dark, so he guided his friends to the right place and when all were
grouped before the door Woot commanded it to open. The Magic Apron
proved as powerful as when it had been worn by the Giantess, so a
moment later they had rushed through the passage and were standing in
the fresh night air outside the castle, free to go wherever they willed.




Chapter Eight

The Menace of the Forest


"Quick!" cried Polychrome the Canary; "we must hurry, or Mrs. Yoop may
find some way to recapture us, even now. Let us get out of her Valley
as soon as possible."

So they set off toward the east, moving as swiftly as they could, and
for a long time they could hear the yells and struggles of the
imprisoned Giantess. The Green Monkey could run over the ground very
swiftly, and he carried with him the bird-cage containing Polychrome
the Rain-bow's Daughter. Also the Tin Owl could skip and fly along at a
good rate of speed, his feathers rattling against one another with a
tinkling sound as he moved. But the little Brown Bear, being stuffed
with straw, was a clumsy traveler and the others had to wait for him to
follow.

However, they were not very long in reaching the ridge that led out of
Mrs. Yoop's Valley, and when they had passed this ridge and descended
into the next valley they stopped to rest, for the Green Monkey was
tired.

"I believe we are safe, now," said Polychrome, when her cage was set
down and the others had all gathered around it, "for Mrs. Yoop dares
not go outside of her own Valley, for fear of being captured by her
enemies. So we may take our time to consider what to do next."

"I'm afraid poor Mrs. Yoop will starve to death, if no one lets her out
of her bedroom," said Woot, who had a heart as kind as that of the Tin
Woodman. "We've taken her Magic Apron away, and now the doors will
never open."

"Don't worry about that," advised Polychrome. "Mrs. Yoop has plenty of
magic left to console her."

"Are you sure of that?" asked the Green Monkey.

"Yes, for I've been watching her for weeks," said the Canary. "She has
six magic hairpins, which she wears in her hair, and a magic ring which
she wears on her thumb and which is invisible to all eyes except those
of a fairy, and magic bracelets on both her ankles. So I am positive
that she will manage to find a way out of her prison."

"She might transform the door into an archway," suggested the little
Brown Bear.

"That would be easy for her," said the Tin Owl; "but I'm glad she was
too angry to think of that before we got out of her Valley."

"Well, we have escaped the big woman, to be sure," remarked the Green
Monkey, "but we still wear the awful forms the cruel yookoohoo gave us.
How are we going to get rid of these shapes, and become ourselves
again?"

None could answer that question. They sat around the cage, brooding
over the problem, until the Monkey fell asleep. Seeing this, the Canary
tucked her head under her wing and also slept, and the Tin Owl and the
Brown Bear did not disturb them until morning came and it was broad
daylight.

"I'm hungry," said Woot, when he wakened, for his knapsack of food had
been left behind at the castle.

"Then let us travel on until we can find something for you to eat,"
returned the Scarecrow Bear.

"There is no use in your lugging my cage any farther," declared the
Canary. "Let me out, and throw the cage away. Then I can fly with you
and find my own breakfast of seeds. Also I can search for water, and
tell you where to find it."

So the Green Monkey unfastened the door of the golden cage and the
Canary hopped out. At first she flew high in the air and made great
circles overhead, but after a time she returned and perched beside them.

"At the east in the direction we were following," announced the Canary,
"there is a fine forest, with a brook running through it. In the forest
there may be fruits or nuts growing, or berry bushes at its edge, so
let us go that way."

They agreed to this and promptly set off, this time moving more
deliberately. The Tin Owl, which had guided their way during the night,
now found the sunshine very trying to his big eyes, so he shut them
tight and perched upon the back of the little Brown Bear, which carried
the Owl's weight with ease. The Canary sometimes perched upon the Green
Monkey's shoulder and sometimes fluttered on ahead of the party, and in
this manner they traveled in good spirits across that valley and into
the next one to the east of it.

This they found to be an immense hollow, shaped like a saucer, and on
its farther edge appeared the forest which Polychrome had seen from the
sky.

"Come to think of it," said the Tin Owl, waking up and blinking
comically at his friends, "there's no object, now, in our traveling to
the Munchkin Country. My idea in going there was to marry Nimmie Amee,
but however much the Munchkin girl may have loved a Tin Woodman, I
cannot reasonably expect her to marry a Tin Owl."

"There is some truth in that, my friend," remarked the Brown Bear. "And
to think that I, who was considered the handsomest Scarecrow in the
world, am now condemned to be a scrubby, no-account beast, whose only
redeeming feature is that he is stuffed with straw!"

"Consider my case, please," said Woot. "The cruel Giantess has made a
Monkey of a Boy, and that is the most dreadful deed of all!"

"Your color is rather pretty," said the Brown Bear, eyeing Woot
critically. "I have never seen a pea-green monkey before, and it
strikes me you are quite gorgeous."

"It isn't so bad to be a bird," asserted the Canary, fluttering from
one to another with a free and graceful motion, "but I long to enjoy my
own shape a gam."

"As Polychrome, you were the loveliest maiden I have ever seen--except,
of course, Ozma," said the Tin Owl; "so the Giantess did well to
transform you into the loveliest of all birds, if you were to be
transformed at all. But tell me, since you are a fairy, and have a
fairy wisdom: do you think we shall be able to break these
enchantments?"

"Queer things happen in the Land of Oz," replied the Canary, again
perching on the Green Monkey's shoulder and turning one bright eye
thoughtfully toward her questioner. "Mrs. Yoop has declared that none
of her transformations can ever be changed, even by herself, but I
believe that if we could get to Glinda the Good Sorceress, she might
find a way to restore us to our natural shapes. Glinda, as you know, is
the most powerful Sorceress in the world, and there are few things she
cannot do if she tries."

"In that case," said the Little Brown Bear, "let us return southward
and try to get to Glinda's castle. It lies in the Quadling Country, you
know, so it is a good way from here."

"First, however, let us visit the forest and search for something to
eat," pleaded Woot. So they continued on to the edge of the forest,
which consisted of many tall and beautiful trees. They discovered no
fruit trees, at first, so the Green Monkey pushed on into the forest
depths and the others followed close behind him.

They were traveling quietly along, under the shade of the trees, when
suddenly an enormous jaguar leaped upon them from a limb and with one
blow of his paw sent the little Brown Bear tumbling over and over until
he was stopped by a tree-trunk. Instantly they all took alarm. The Tin
Owl shrieked: "Hoot--hoot!" and flew straight up to the branch of a
tall tree, although he could scarcely see where he was going. The
Canary swiftly darted to a place beside the Owl, and the Green Monkey
sprang up, caught a limb, and soon scrambled to a high perch of safety.

The Jaguar crouched low and with hungry eyes regarded the little Brown
Bear, which slowly got upon its feet and asked reproachfully:

"For goodness' sake, Beast, what were you trying to do?"

"Trying to get my breakfast," answered the Jaguar with a snarl, "and I
believe I've succeeded. You ought to make a delicious meal--unless you
happen to be old and tough."

"I'm worse than that, considered as a breakfast," said the Bear, "for
I'm only a skin stuffed with straw, and therefore not fit to eat."

"Indeed!" cried the Jaguar, in a disappointed voice; "then you must be
a magic Bear, or enchanted, and I must seek my breakfast from among
your companions."

With this he raised his lean head to look up at the Tin Owl and the
Canary and the Monkey, and he lashed his tail upon the ground and
growled as fiercely as any jaguar could.

"My friends are enchanted, also," said the little Brown Bear.

"All of them?" asked the Jaguar.

"Yes. The Owl is tin, so you couldn't possibly eat him. The Canary is a
fairy--Polychrome, the Daughter of the Rainbow--and you never could
catch her because she can easily fly out of your reach."

"There still remains the Green Monkey," remarked the Jaguar hungrily.
"He is neither made of tin nor stuffed with straw, nor can he fly. I'm
pretty good at climbing trees, myself, so I think I'll capture the
Monkey and eat him for my breakfast."

Woot the Monkey, hearing this speech from his perch on the tree, became
much frightened, for he knew the nature of jaguars and realized they
could climb trees and leap from limb to limb with the agility of cats.
So he at once began to scamper through the forest as fast as he could
go, catching at a branch with his long monkey arms and swinging his
green body through space to grasp another branch in a neighboring tree,
and so on, while the Jaguar followed him from below, his eyes fixed
steadfastly on his prey. But presently Woot got his feet tangled in the
Lace Apron, which he was still wearing, and that tripped him in his
flight and made him fall to the ground, where the Jaguar placed one
huge paw upon him and said grimly:

"I've got you, now!"

The fact that the Apron had tripped him made Woot remember its magic
powers, and in his terror he cried out: "Open!" without stopping to
consider how this command might save him. But, at the word, the earth
opened at the exact spot where he lay under the Jaguar's paw, and his
body sank downward, the earth closing over it again. The last thing
Woot the Monkey saw, as he glanced upward, was the Jaguar peering into
the hole in astonishment.

"He's gone!" cried the beast, with a long-drawn sigh of disappointment;
"he's gone, and now I shall have no breakfast."

The clatter of the Tin Owl's wings sounded above him, and the little
Brown Bear came trotting up and asked:

"Where is the monkey? Have you eaten him so quickly?"

"No, indeed," answered the Jaguar. "He disappeared into the earth
before I could take one bite of him!"

And now the Canary perched upon a stump, a little way from the forest
beast, and said:

"I am glad our friend has escaped you; but, as it is natural for a
hungry beast to wish his breakfast, I will try to give you one."

"Thank you," replied the Jaguar. "You're rather small for a full meal,
but it's kind of you to sacrifice yourself to my appetite."

"Oh, I don't intend to be eaten, I assure you," said the Canary, "but
as I am a fairy I know something of magic, and though I am now
transformed into a bird's shape, I am sure I can conjure up a breakfast
that will satisfy you."

"If you can work magic, why don't you break the enchantment you are
under and return to your proper form?" inquired the beast doubtingly.

"I haven't the power to do that," answered the Canary, "for Mrs. Yoop,
the Giantess who transformed me, used a peculiar form of yookoohoo
magic that is unknown to me. However, she could not deprive me of my
own fairy knowledge, so I will try to get you a breakfast."

"Do you think a magic breakfast would taste good, or relieve the pangs
of hunger I now suffer?" asked the Jaguar.

"I am sure it would. What would you like to eat?"

"Give me a couple of fat rabbits," said the beast.

"Rabbits! No, indeed. I'd not allow you to eat the dear little things,"
declared Polychrome the Canary.

"Well, three or four squirrels, then," pleaded the Jaguar.

"Do you think me so cruel?" demanded the Canary, indignantly. "The
squirrels are my especial friends."

"How about a plump owl?" asked the beast. "Not a tin one, you know, but
a real meat owl."

"Neither beast nor bird shall you have," said Polychrome in a positive
voice.

"Give me a fish, then; there's a river a little way off," proposed the
Jaguar.

"No living thing shall be sacrificed to feed you," returned the Canary.

"Then what in the world do you expect me to eat?" said the Jaguar in a
scornful tone.

"How  would  mush-and-milk  do?"  asked  the Canary.

The Jaguar snarled in derision and lashed his tail against the ground
angrily.

"Give him some scrambled eggs on toast, Poly," suggested the Bear
Scarecrow. "He ought to like that."

"I will," responded the Canary, and fluttering her wings she made a
flight of three circles around the stump. Then she flew up to a tree
and the Bear and the Owl and the Jaguar saw that upon the stump had
appeared a great green leaf upon which was a large portion of scrambled
eggs on toast, smoking hot.

"There!" said the Bear; "eat your breakfast, friend Jaguar, and be
content."

The Jaguar crept closer to the stump and sniffed the fragrance of the
scrambled eggs. They smelled so good that he tasted them, and they
tasted so good that he ate the strange meal in a hurry, proving he had
been really hungry.

"I prefer rabbits," he muttered, licking his chops, "but I must admit
the magic breakfast has filled my stomach full, and brought me comfort.
So I'm much obliged for the kindness, little Fairy, and I'll now leave
you in peace."

Saying this, he plunged into the thick underbrush and soon disappeared,
although they could hear his great body crashing through the bushes
until he was far distant.

"That was a good way to get rid of the savage beast, Poly," said the
Tin Woodman to the Canary; "but I'm surprised that you didn't give our
friend Woot a magic breakfast, when you knew he was hungry."

"The reason for that," answered Polychrome, "was that my mind was so
intent on other things that I quite forgot my power to produce food by
magic. But where is the monkey boy?"

"Gone!" said the Scarecrow Bear, solemnly. "The earth has swallowed him
up."




Chapter Nine

The Quarrelsome Dragons


The Green Monkey sank gently into the earth for a little way and then
tumbled swiftly through space, landing on a rocky floor with a thump
that astonished him. Then he sat up, found that no bones were broken,
and gazed around him.

He seemed to be in a big underground cave, which was dimly lighted by
dozens of big round discs that looked like moons. They were not moons,
however, as Woot discovered when he had examined the place more
carefully. They were eyes. The eyes were in the heads of enormous
beasts whose bodies trailed far behind them. Each beast was bigger than
an elephant, and three times as long, and there were a dozen or more of
the creatures scattered here and there about the cavern. On their
bodies were big scales, as round as pie-plates, which were beautifully
tinted in shades of green, purple and orange. On the ends of their long
tails were clusters of jewels. Around the great, moon-like eyes were
circles of diamonds which sparkled in the subdued light that glowed
from the eyes.

Woot saw that the creatures had wide mouths and rows of terrible teeth
and, from tales he had heard of such beings, he knew he had fallen into
a cavern inhabited by the great Dragons that had been driven from the
surface of the earth and were only allowed to come out once in a
hundred years to search for food. Of course he had never seen Dragons
before, yet there was no mistaking them, for they were unlike any other
living creatures.

Woot sat upon the floor where he had fallen, staring around, and the
owners of the big eyes returned his look, silently and motionless.
Finally one of the Dragons which was farthest away from him asked, in a
deep, grave voice:

"What was that?"

And the greatest Dragon of all, who was just in front of the Green
Monkey, answered in a still deeper voice:

"It is some foolish animal from Outside."

"Is it good to eat?" inquired a smaller Dragon beside the great one.
"I'm hungry."

"Hungry!" exclaimed all the Dragons, in a reproachful chorus; and then
the great one said chidingly: "Tut-tut, my son! You've no reason to be
hungry at this time."

"Why not?" asked the little Dragon. "I haven't eaten anything in eleven
years."

"Eleven years is nothing," remarked another Dragon, sleepily opening
and closing his eyes; "I haven't feasted for eighty-seven years, and I
dare not get hungry for a dozen or so years to come. Children who eat
between meals should be broken of the habit."

"All I had, eleven years ago, was a rhinoceros, and that's not a full
meal at all," grumbled the young one. "And, before that, I had waited
sixty-two years to be fed; so it's no wonder I'm hungry."

"How old are you now?" asked Woot, forgetting his own dangerous
position in his interest in the conversation.

"Why, I'm--I'm--How old am I, Father?" asked the little Dragon.

"Goodness gracious! what a child to ask questions. Do you want to keep
me thinking all the time? Don't you know that thinking is very bad for
Dragons?" returned the big one, impatiently.

"How old am I, Father?" persisted the small Dragon.

"About six hundred and thirty, I believe. Ask your mother."

"No; don't!" said an old Dragon in the background; "haven't I enough
worries, what with being wakened in the middle of a nap, without being
obliged to keep track of my children's ages?"

"You've been fast asleep for over sixty years, Mother," said the child
Dragon. "How long a nap do you wish?"

"I should have slept forty years longer. And this strange little green
beast should be punished for falling into our cavern and disturbing us."

"I didn't know you were here, and I didn't know I was going to fall
in," explained Woot.

"Nevertheless, here you are," said the great Dragon, "and you have
carelessly wakened our entire tribe; so it stands to reason you must be
punished."

"In what way?" inquired the Green Monkey, trembling a little.

"Give me time and I'll think of a way. You're in no hurry, are you?"
asked the great Dragon.

"No, indeed," cried Woot. "Take your time. I'd much rather you'd all go
to sleep again, and punish me when you wake up in a hundred years or
so."

"Let me eat him!" pleaded the littlest Dragon.

"He is too small," said the father. "To eat this one Green Monkey would
only serve to make you hungry for more, and there are no more."

"Quit this chatter and let me get to sleep," protested another Dragon,
yawning in a fearful manner, for when he opened his mouth a sheet of
flame leaped forth from it and made Woot jump back to get out of its
way.

In his jump he bumped against the nose of a Dragon behind him, which
opened its mouth to growl and shot another sheet of flame at him. The
flame was bright, but not very hot, yet Woot screamed with terror and
sprang forward with a great bound. This time he landed on the paw of
the great Chief Dragon, who angrily raised his other front paw and
struck the Green Monkey a fierce blow. Woot went sailing through the
air and fell sprawling upon the rocky floor far beyond the place where
the Dragon Tribe was grouped.

All the great beasts were now thoroughly wakened and aroused, and they
blamed the monkey for disturbing their quiet. The littlest Dragon
darted after Woot and the others turned their unwieldy bodies in his
direction and followed, flashing from their eyes and mouths flames
which lighted up the entire cavern. Woot almost gave himself up for
lost, at that moment, but he scrambled to his feet and dashed away to
the farthest end of the cave, the Dragons following more leisurely
because they were too clumsy to move fast. Perhaps they thought there
was no need of haste, as the monkey could not escape from the cave.
But, away up at the end of the place, the cavern floor was heaped with
tumbled rocks, so Woot, with an agility born of fear, climbed from rock
to rock until he found himself crouched against the cavern roof. There
he waited, for he could go no farther, while on over the tumbled rocks
slowly crept the Dragons--the littlest one coming first because he was
hungry as well as angry.

The beasts had almost reached him when Woot, remembering his lace
apron--now sadly torn and soiled--recovered his wits and shouted:
"Open!" At the cry a hole appeared in the roof of the cavern, just over
his head, and through it the sunlight streamed full upon the Green
Monkey.

The Dragons paused, astonished at the magic and blinking at the
sunlight, and this gave Woot time to climb through the opening. As soon
as he reached the surface of the earth the hole closed again, and the
boy monkey realized, with a thrill of joy, that he had seen the last of
the dangerous Dragon family.

He sat upon the ground, still panting hard from his exertions, when the
bushes before him parted and his former enemy, the Jaguar, appeared.

"Don't run," said the woodland beast, as Woot sprang up; "you are
perfectly safe, so far as I am concerned, for since you so mysteriously
disappeared I have had my breakfast. I am now on my way home to sleep
the rest of the day."

"Oh, indeed!" returned the Green Monkey, in a tone both sorry and
startled. "Which of my friends did you manage to eat?"

"None of them," returned the Jaguar, with a sly grin "I had a dish of
magic scrambled eggs--on toast--and it wasn't a bad feast, at all.
There isn't room in me for even you, and I don't regret it because I
judge, from your green color, that you are not ripe, and would make an
indifferent meal. We jaguars have to be careful of our digestions.
Farewell, Friend Monkey. Follow the path I made through the bushes and
you will find your friends."

With this the Jaguar marched on his way and Woot took his advice and
followed the trail he had made until he came to the place where the
little Brown Bear, and the Tin Owl, and the Canary were conferring
together and wondering what had become of their comrade, the Green
Monkey.




Chapter Ten

Tommy Kwikstep


"Our best plan," said the Scarecrow Bear, when the Green Monkey had
related the story of his adventure with the Dragons, "is to get out of
this Gillikin Country as soon as we can and try to find our way to the
castle of Glinda, the Good Sorceress. There are too many dangers
lurking here to suit me, and Glinda may be able to restore us to our
proper forms."

"If we turn south now," the Tin Owl replied, "we might go straight into
the Emerald City. That's a place I wish to avoid, for I'd hate to have
my friends see me in this sad plight," and he blinked his eyes and
fluttered his tin wings mournfully.

"But I am certain we have passed beyond Emerald City," the Canary
assured him, sailing lightly around their heads. "So, should we turn
south from here, we would pass into the Munchkin Country, and
continuing south we would reach the Quadling Country where Glinda's
castle is located."

"Well, since you're sure of that, let's start right away," proposed the
Bear. "It's a long journey, at the best, and I'm getting tired of
walking on four legs."

"I thought you never tired, being stuffed with straw," said Woot.

"I mean that it annoys me, to be obliged to go on all fours, when two
legs are my proper walking equipment," replied the Scarecrow. "I
consider it beneath my dignity. In other words, my remarkable brains
can tire, through humiliation, although my body cannot tire."

"That is one of the penalties of having brains," remarked the Tin Owl
with a sigh. "I have had no brains since I was a man of meat, and so I
never worry. Nevertheless, I prefer my former manly form to this owl's
shape and would be glad to break Mrs. Yoop's enchantment as soon as
possible. I am so noisy, just now, that I disturb myself," and he
fluttered his wings with a clatter that echoed throughout the forest.

So, being all of one mind, they turned southward, traveling steadily on
until the woods were left behind and the landscape turned from purple
tints to blue tints, which assured them they had entered the Country of
the Munchkins.

"Now I feel myself more safe," said the Scarecrow Bear. "I know this
country pretty well, having been made here by a Munchkin farmer and
having wandered over these lovely blue lands many times. Seems to me,
indeed, that I even remember that group of three tall trees ahead of
us; and, if I do, we are not far from the home of my friend Jinjur."

"Who is Jinjur?" asked Woot, the Green Monkey.

"Haven't you heard of Jinjur?" exclaimed the Scarecrow, in surprise.

"No," said Woot. "Is Jinjur a man, a woman, a beast or a bird?"

"Jinjur is a girl," explained the Scarecrow Bear. "She's a fine girl,
too, although a bit restless and liable to get excited. Once, a long
time ago, she raised an army of girls and called herself 'General
Jinjur.' With her army she captured the Emerald City, and drove me out
of it, because I insisted that an army in Oz was highly improper. But
Ozma punished the rash girl, and afterward Jinjur and I became fast
friends. Now Jinjur lives peacefully on a farm, near here, and raises
fields of cream-puffs, chocolate-caramels and macaroons. They say she's
a pretty good farmer, and in addition to that she's an artist, and
paints pictures so perfect that one can scarcely tell them from nature.
She often repaints my face for me, when it gets worn or mussy, and the
lovely expression I wore when the Giantess transformed me was painted
by Jinjur only a month or so ago."

"It was certainly a pleasant expression," agreed Woot.

"Jinjur can paint anything," continued the Scarecrow Bear, with
enthusiasm, as they walked along together. "Once, when I came to her
house, my straw was old and crumpled, so that my body sagged
dreadfully. I needed new straw to replace the old, but Jinjur had no
straw on all her ranch and I was really unable to travel farther until
I had been restuffed. When I explained this to Jinjur, the girl at once
painted a straw-stack which was so natural that I went to it and
secured enough straw to fill all my body. It was a good quality of
straw, too, and lasted me a long time."

This seemed very wonderful to Woot, who knew that such a thing could
never happen in any place but a fairy country like Oz.

The Munchkin Country was much nicer than the Gillikin Country, and all
the fields were separated by blue fences, with grassy lanes and paths
of blue ground, and the land seemed well cultivated. They were on a
little hill looking down upon this favored country, but had not quite
reached the settled parts, when on turning a bend in the path they were
halted by a form that barred their way.

A more curious creature they had seldom seen, even in the Land of Oz,
where curious creatures abound. It had the head of a young
man--evidently a Munchkin--with a pleasant face and hair neatly combed.
But the body was very long, for it had twenty legs--ten legs on each
side--and this caused the body to stretch out and lie in a horizontal
position, so that all the legs could touch the ground and stand firm.
From the shoulders extended two small arms; at least, they seemed small
beside so many legs.

This odd creature was dressed in the regulation clothing of the
Munchkin people, a dark blue coat neatly fitting the long body and each
pair of legs having a pair of sky-blue trousers, with blue-tinted
stockings and blue leather shoes turned up at the pointed toes.

"I wonder who you are?" said Polychrome the Canary, fluttering above
the strange creature, who had probably been asleep on the path.

"I sometimes wonder, myself, who I am," replied the many-legged young
man; "but, in reality, I am Tommy Kwikstep, and I live in a hollow tree
that fell to the ground with age. I have polished the inside of it, and
made a door at each end, and that's a very comfortable residence for me
because it just fits my shape."

"How did you happen to have such a shape?" asked the Scarecrow Bear,
sitting on his haunches and regarding Tommy Kwikstep with a serious
look. "Is the shape natural?"

"No; it was wished on me," replied Tommy, with a sigh. "I used to be
very active and loved to run errands for anyone who needed my services.
That was how I got my name of Tommy Kwikstep. I could run an errand
more quickly than any other boy, and so I was very proud of myself. One
day, however, I met an old lady who was a fairy, or a witch, or
something of the sort, and she said if I would run an errand for
her--to carry some magic medicine to another old woman--she would grant
me just one Wish, whatever the Wish happened to be. Of course I
consented and, taking the medicine, I hurried away. It was a long
distance, mostly up hill, and my legs began to grow weary. Without
thinking what I was doing I said aloud: 'Dear me; I wish I had twenty
legs!' and in an instant I became the unusual creature you see beside
you. Twenty legs! Twenty on one man! You may count them, if you doubt
my word."

"You've got 'em, all right," said Woot the Monkey, who had already
counted them.

"After I had delivered the magic medicine to the old woman, I returned
and tried to find the witch, or fairy, or whatever she was, who had
given me the unlucky wish, so she could take it away again. I've been
searching for her ever since, but never can I find her," continued poor
Tommy Kwikstep, sadly.

"I suppose," said the Tin Owl, blinking at him, "you can travel very
fast, with those twenty legs."

"At first I was able to," was the reply; "but I traveled so much,
searching for the fairy, or witch, or whatever she was, that I soon got
corns on my toes. Now, a corn on one toe is not so bad, but when you
have a hundred toes--as I have--and get corns on most of them, it is
far from pleasant. Instead of running, I now painfully crawl, and
although I try not to be discouraged I do hope I shall find that witch
or fairy, or whatever she was, before long."

"I hope so, too," said the Scarecrow. "But, after all, you have the
pleasure of knowing you are unusual, and therefore remarkable among the
people of Oz. To be just like other persons is small credit to one,
while to be unlike others is a mark of distinction."

"That sounds very pretty," returned Tommy Kwikstep, "but if you had to
put on ten pair of trousers every morning, and tie up twenty shoes, you
would prefer not to be so distinguished."

"Was the witch, or fairy, or whatever she was, an old person, with
wrinkled skin and half her teeth gone?" inquired the Tin Owl.

"No," said Tommy Kwikstep.

"Then she wasn't Old Mombi," remarked the transformed Emperor.

"I'm not interested in who it wasn't, so much as I am in who it was,"
said the twenty-legged young man. "And, whatever or whomsoever she was,
she has managed to keep out of my way."

"If you found her, do you suppose she'd change you back into a
two-legged boy?" asked Woot.

"Perhaps so, if I could run another errand for her and so earn another
wish."

"Would you really like to be as you were before?" asked Polychrome the
Canary, perching upon the Green Monkey's shoulder to observe Tommy
Kwikstep more attentively.

"I would, indeed," was the earnest reply.

"Then I will see what I can do for you," promised the Rainbow's
Daughter, and flying to the ground she took a small twig in her bill
and with it made several mystic figures on each side of Tommy Kwikstep.

"Are you a witch, or fairy, or something of the sort?" he asked as he
watched her wonderingly.

The Canary made no answer, for she was busy, but the Scarecrow Bear
replied: "Yes; she's something of the sort, and a bird of a magician."

The twenty-legged boy's transformation happened so queerly that they
were all surprised at its method. First, Tommy Kwikstep's last two legs
disappeared; then the next two, and the next, and as each pair of legs
vanished his body shortened. All this while Polychrome was running
around him and chirping mystical words, and when all the young man's
legs had disappeared but two he noticed that the Canary was still busy
and cried out in alarm:

"Stop--stop! Leave me two of my legs, or I shall be worse off than
before."

"I know," said the Canary. "I'm only removing with my magic the corns
from your last ten toes."

"Thank you for being so thoughtful," he said gratefully, and now they
noticed that Tommy Kwikstep was quite a nice looking young fellow.

"What will you do now?" asked Woot the Monkey.

"First," he answered, "I must deliver a note which I've carried in my
pocket ever since the witch, or fairy, or whatever she was, granted my
foolish wish. And I am resolved never to speak again without taking
time to think carefully on what I am going to say, for I realize that
speech without thought is dangerous. And after I've delivered the note,
I shall run errands again for anyone who needs my services."

So he thanked Polychrome again and started away in a different
direction from their own, and that was the last they saw of Tommy
Kwikstep.




Chapter Eleven

Jinjur's Ranch


As they followed a path down the blue-grass hillside, the first house
that met the view of the travelers was joyously recognized by the
Scarecrow Bear as the one inhabited by his friend Jinjur, so they
increased their speed and hurried toward it.

On reaching the place, how ever, they found the house deserted. The
front door stood open, but no one was inside. In the garden surrounding
the house were neat rows of bushes bearing cream-puffs and macaroons,
some of which were still green, but others ripe and ready to eat.
Farther back were fields of caramels, and all the land seemed well
cultivated and carefully tended. They looked through the fields for the
girl farmer, but she was nowhere to be seen.

"Well," finally remarked the little Brown Bear, "let us go into the
house and make ourselves at home. That will be sure to please my friend
Jinjur, who happens to be away from home just now. When she returns,
she will be greatly surprised."

"Would she care if I ate some of those ripe cream-puffs?" asked the
Green Monkey.

"No, indeed; Jinjur is very generous. Help yourself to all you want,"
said the Scarecrow Bear.

So Woot gathered a lot of the cream-puffs that were golden yellow and
filled with a sweet, creamy substance, and ate until his hunger was
satisfied. Then he entered the house with his friends and sat in a
rocking-chair--just as he was accustomed to do when a boy. The Canary
perched herself upon the mantel and daintily plumed her feathers; the
Tin Owl sat on the back of another chair; the Scarecrow squatted on his
hairy haunches in the middle of the room.

"I believe I remember the girl Jinjur," remarked the Canary, in her
sweet voice. "She cannot help us very much, except to direct us on our
way to Glinda's castle, for she does not understand magic. But she's a
good girl, honest and sensible, and I'll be glad to see her."

"All our troubles," said the Owl with a deep sigh, "arose from my
foolish resolve to seek Nimmie Amee and make her Empress of the
Winkies, and while I wish to reproach no one, I must say that it was
Woot the Wanderer who put the notion into my head."

"Well, for my part, I am glad he did," responded the Canary. "Your
journey resulted in saving me from the Giantess, and had you not
traveled to the Yoop Valley, I would still be Mrs. Yoop's prisoner. It
is much nicer to be free, even though I still bear the enchanted form
of a Canary-Bird."

"Do you think we shall ever be able to get our proper forms back
again?" asked the Green Monkey earnestly.

Polychrome did not make reply at once to this important question, but
after a period of thoughtfulness she said:

"I have been taught to believe that there is an antidote for every
magic charm, yet Mrs. Yoop insists that no power can alter her
transformations. I realize that my own fairy magic cannot do it,
although I have thought that we Sky Fairies have more power than is
accorded to Earth Fairies. The yookoohoo magic is admitted to be very
strange in its workings and different from the magic usually practiced,
but perhaps Glinda or Ozma may understand it better than I. In them
lies our only hope. Unless they can help us, we must remain forever as
we are."

"A Canary-Bird on a Rainbow wouldn't be so bad," asserted the Tin Owl,
winking and blinking with his round tin eyes, "so if you can manage to
find your Rainbow again you need have little to worry about."

"That's nonsense, Friend Chopper," exclaimed Woot. "I know just how
Polychrome feels. A beautiful girl is much superior to a little yellow
bird, and a boy--such as I was--far better than a Green Monkey. Neither
of us can be happy again unless we recover our rightful forms."

"I feel the same way," announced the stuffed Bear. "What do you suppose
my friend the Patchwork Girl would think of me, if she saw me wearing
this beastly shape?"

"She'd laugh till she cried," admitted the Tin Owl. "For my part, I'll
have to give up the notion of marrying Nimmie Amee, but I'll try not to
let that make me unhappy. If it's my duty, I'd like to do my duty, but
if magic prevents my getting married I'll flutter along all by myself
and be just as contented."

Their serious misfortunes made them all silent for a time, and as their
thoughts were busy in dwelling upon the evils with which fate had
burdened them, none noticed that Jinjur had suddenly appeared in the
doorway and was looking at them in astonishment. The next moment her
astonishment changed to anger, for there, in her best rocking-chair,
sat a Green Monkey. A great shiny Owl perched upon another chair and a
Brown Bear squatted upon her parlor rug. Jinjur did not notice the
Canary, but she caught up a broomstick and dashed into the room,
shouting as she came:

"Get out of here, you wild creatures!  How dare you enter my house?"

With a blow of her broom she knocked the Brown Bear over, and the Tin
Owl tried to fly out of her reach and made a great clatter with his tin
wings. The Green Monkey was so startled by the sudden attack that he
sprang into the fireplace--where there was fortunately no fire--and
tried to escape by climbing up the chimney. But he found the opening
too small, and so was forced to drop down again. Then he crouched
trembling in the fireplace, his pretty green hair all blackened with
soot and covered with ashes. From this position Woot watched to see
what would happen next.

"Stop, Jinjur--stop!" cried the Brown Bear, when the broom again
threatened him. "Don't you know me? I'm your old friend the Scarecrow?"

"You're trying to deceive me, you naughty beast! I can see plainly that
you are a bear, and a mighty poor specimen of a bear, too," retorted
the girl.

"That's because I'm not properly stuffed," he assured her. "When Mrs.
Yoop transformed me, she didn't realize I should have more stuffing."

"Who is Mrs. Yoop?" inquired Jinjur, pausing with the broom still
upraised.

"A Giantess in the Gillikin Country."

"Oh; I begin to understand. And Mrs. Yoop transformed you? You are
really the famous Scarecrow of Oz."

"I was, Jinjur. Just now I'm as you see me--a miserable little Brown
Bear with a poor quality of stuffing. That Tin Owl is none other than
our dear Tin Woodman--Nick Chopper, the Emperor of the Winkies--while
this Green Monkey is a nice little boy we recently became acquainted
with, Woot the Wanderer."

"And I," said the Canary, flying close to Jinjur, "am Polychrome, the
Daughter of the Rainbow, in the form of a bird."

"Goodness me!" cried Jinjur, amazed; "that Giantess must be a powerful
Sorceress, and as wicked as she is powerful."

"She's a yookoohoo," said Polychrome. "Fortunately, we managed to
escape from her castle, and we are now on our way to Glinda the Good to
see if she possesses the power to restore us to our former shapes."

"Then I must beg your pardons; all of you must forgive me," said
Jinjur, putting away the broom. "I took you to be a lot of wild,
unmannerly animals, as was quite natural. You are very welcome to my
home and I'm sorry I haven't the power to help you out of your
troubles. Please use my house and all that I have, as if it were your
own."

At this declaration of peace, the Bear got upon his feet and the Owl
resumed his perch upon the chair and the Monkey crept out of the
fireplace. Jinjur looked at Woot critically, and scowled.

"For a Green Monkey," said she, "you're the blackest creature I ever
saw. And you'll get my nice clean room all dirty with soot and ashes.
Whatever possessed you to jump up the chimney?"

"I--I was scared," explained Woot, somewhat ashamed.

"Well, you need renovating, and that's what will happen to you, right
away. Come with me!" she commanded.

"What are you going to do?" asked Woot.

"Give you a good scrubbing," said Jinjur.

Now, neither boys nor monkeys relish being scrubbed, so Woot shrank
away from the energetic girl, trembling fearfully. But Jinjur grabbed
him by his paw and dragged him out to the back yard, where, in spite of
his whines and struggles, she plunged him into a tub of cold water and
began to scrub him with a stiff brush and a cake of yellow soap.

This was the hardest trial that Woot had endured since he became a
monkey, but no protest had any influence with Jinjur, who lathered and
scrubbed him in a business-like manner and afterward dried him with a
coarse towel.

The Bear and the Owl gravely watched this operation and nodded approval
when Woot's silky green fur shone clear and bright in the afternoon
sun. The Canary seemed much amused and laughed a silvery ripple of
laughter as she said:

"Very well done, my good Jinjur; I admire your energy and judgment. But
I had no idea a monkey could look so comical as this monkey did while
he was being bathed."

"I'm not a monkey!" declared Woot, resentfully; "I'm just a boy in a
monkey's shape, that's all."

"If you can explain to me the difference," said Jinjur, "I'll agree not
to wash you again--that is, unless you foolishly get into the
fireplace. All persons are usually judged by the shapes in which they
appear to the eyes of others. Look at me, Woot; what am I?"

Woot looked at her.

"You're as pretty a girl as I've ever seen," he replied.

Jinjur frowned. That is, she tried hard to frown.

"Come out into the garden with me," she said, "and I'll give you some
of the most delicious caramels you ever ate. They're a new variety,
that no one can grow but me, and they have a heliotrope flavor."




Chapter Twelve

Ozma and Dorothy


In her magnificent palace in the Emerald City, the beautiful girl Ruler
of all the wonderful Land of Oz sat in her dainty boudoir with her
friend Princess Dorothy beside her. Ozma was studying a roll of
manuscript which she had taken from the Royal Library, while Dorothy
worked at her embroidery and at times stooped to pat a shaggy little
black dog that lay at her feet. The little dog's name was Toto, and he
was Dorothy's faithful companion.

To judge Ozma of Oz by the standards of our world, you would think her
very young--perhaps fourteen or fifteen years of age--yet for years she
had ruled the Land of Oz and had never seemed a bit older. Dorothy
appeared much younger than Ozma. She had been a little girl when first
she came to the Land of Oz, and she was a little girl still, and would
never seem to be a day older while she lived in this wonderful
fairyland.

Oz was not always a fairyland, I am told. Once it was much like other
lands, except it was shut in by a dreadful desert of sandy wastes that
lay all around it, thus preventing its people from all contact with the
rest of the world. Seeing this isolation, the fairy band of Queen
Lurline, passing over Oz while on a journey, enchanted the country and
so made it a Fairyland. And Queen Lurline left one of her fairies to
rule this enchanted Land of Oz, and then passed on and forgot all about
it.

From that moment no one in Oz ever died. Those who were old remained
old; those who were young and strong did not change as years passed
them by; the children remained children always, and played and romped
to their hearts' content, while all the babies lived in their cradles
and were tenderly cared for and never grew up. So people in Oz stopped
counting how old they were in years, for years made no difference in
their appearance and could not alter their station. They did not get
sick, so there were no doctors among them. Accidents might happen to
some, on rare occasions, it is true, and while no one could die
naturally, as other people do, it was possible that one might be
totally destroyed. Such incidents, however, were very unusual, and so
seldom was there anything to worry over that the Oz people were as
happy and contented as can be.

Another strange thing about this fairy Land of Oz was that whoever
managed to enter it from the outside world came under the magic spell
of the place and did not change in appearance as long as they lived
there. So Dorothy, who now lived with Ozma, seemed just the same sweet
little girl she had been when first she came to this delightful
fairyland.

Perhaps all parts of Oz might not be called truly delightful, but it
was surely delightful in the neighborhood of the Emerald City, where
Ozma reigned. Her loving influence was felt for many miles around, but
there were places in the mountains of the Gillikin Country, and the
forests of the Quadling Country, and perhaps in far-away parts of the
Munchkin and Winkie Countries, where the inhabitants were somewhat rude
and uncivilized and had not yet come under the spell of Ozma's wise and
kindly rule. Also, when Oz first became a fairyland, it harbored
several witches and magicians and sorcerers and necromancers, who were
scattered in various parts, but most of these had been deprived of
their magic powers, and Ozma had issued a royal edict forbidding anyone
in her dominions to work magic except Glinda the Good and the Wizard of
Oz. Ozma herself, being a real fairy, knew a lot of magic, but she only
used it to benefit her subjects.

This little explanation will help you to understand better the story
you are reaching, but most of it is already known to those who are
familiar with the Oz people whose adventures they have followed in
other Oz books.

Ozma and Dorothy were fast friends and were much together. Everyone in
Oz loved Dorothy almost as well as they did their lovely Ruler, for the
little Kansas girl's good fortune had not spoiled her or rendered her
at all vain. She was just the same brave and true and adventurous child
as before she lived in a royal palace and became the chum of the fairy
Ozma.

In the room in which the two sat--which was one of Ozma's private suite
of apartments--hung the famous Magic Picture. This was the source of
constant interest to little Dorothy. One had but to stand before it and
wish to see what any person was doing, and at once a scene would flash
upon the magic canvas which showed exactly where that person was, and
like our own moving pictures would reproduce the actions of that person
as long as you cared to watch them. So today, when Dorothy tired of her
embroidery, she drew the curtains from before the Magic Picture and
wished to see what her friend Button Bright was doing. Button Bright,
she saw, was playing ball with Ojo, the Munchkin boy, so Dorothy next
wished to see what her Aunt Em was doing. The picture showed Aunt Em
quietly engaged in darning socks for Uncle Henry, so Dorothy wished to
see what her old friend the Tin Woodman was doing.

The Tin Woodman was then just leaving his tin castle in the company of
the Scarecrow and Woot the Wanderer. Dorothy had never seen this boy
before, so she wondered who he was. Also she was curious to know where
the three were going, for she noticed Woot's knapsack and guessed they
had started on a long journey. She asked Ozma about it, but Ozma did
not know.

That afternoon Dorothy again saw the travelers in the Magic Picture,
but they were merely tramping through the country and Dorothy was not
much interested in them. A couple of days later, however, the girl,
being again with Ozma, wished to see her friends, the Scarecrow and the
Tin Woodman in the Magic Picture, and on this occasion found them in
the great castle of Mrs. Yoop, the Giantess, who was at the time about
to transform them. Both Dorothy and Ozma now became greatly interested
and watched the transformations with indignation and horror.

"What a wicked Giantess!" exclaimed Dorothy.

"Yes," answered Ozma, "she must be punished for this cruelty to our
friends, and to the poor boy who is with them."

After this they followed the adventure of the little Brown Bear and the
Tin Owl and the Green Monkey with breathless interest, and were
delighted when they escaped from Mrs. Yoop. They did not know, then,
who the Canary was, but realized it must be the transformation of some
person of consequence, whom the Giantess had also enchanted.

When, finally, the day came when the adventurers headed south into the
Munchkin Country, Dorothy asked anxiously:

"Can't something be done for them, Ozma? Can't you change 'em back into
their own shapes? They've suffered enough from these dreadful
transformations, seems to me."

"I've been studying ways to help them, ever since they were
transformed," replied Ozma. "Mrs. Yoop is now the only yookoohoo in my
dominions, and the yookoohoo magic is very peculiar and hard for others
to understand, yet I am resolved to make the attempt to break these
enchantments. I may not succeed, but I shall do the best I can. From
the directions our friends are taking, I believe they are going to pass
by Jinjur's Ranch, so if we start now we may meet them there. Would you
like to go with me, Dorothy?"

"Of course," answered the little girl; "I wouldn't miss it for
anything."

"Then order the Red Wagon," said Ozma of Oz, "and we will start at
once."

Dorothy ran to do as she was bid, while Ozma went to her Magic Room to
make ready the things she believed she would need. In half an hour the
Red Wagon stood before the grand entrance of the palace, and before it
was hitched the Wooden Sawhorse, which was Ozma's favorite steed.

This Sawhorse, while made of wood, was very much alive and could travel
swiftly and without tiring. To keep the ends of his wooden legs from
wearing down short, Ozma had shod the Sawhorse with plates of pure
gold. His harness was studded with brilliant emeralds and other jewels
and so, while he himself was not at all handsome, his outfit made a
splendid appearance.

Since the Sawhorse could understand her spoken words, Ozma used no
reins to guide him. She merely told him where to go. When she came from
the palace with Dorothy, they both climbed into the Red Wagon and then
the little dog, Toto, ran up and asked:

"Are you going to leave me behind, Dorothy?" Dorothy looked at Ozma,
who smiled in return and said:

"Toto may go with us, if you wish him to."

So Dorothy lifted the little dog into the wagon, for, while he could
run fast, he could not keep up with the speed of the wonderful Sawhorse.


Away they went, over hills and through meadows, covering the ground
with astonishing speed. It is not surprising, therefore, that the Red
Wagon arrived before Jinjur's house just as that energetic young lady
had finished scrubbing the Green Monkey and was about to lead him to
the caramel patch.




Chapter Thirteen

The Restoration


The Tin Owl gave a hoot of delight when he saw the Red Wagon draw up
before Jinjur's house, and the Brown Bear grunted and growled with glee
and trotted toward Ozma as fast as he could wobble. As for the Canary,
it flew swiftly to Dorothy's shoulder and perched there, saying in her
ear:

"Thank goodness you have come to our rescue!"

"But who are you?" asked Dorothy

"Don't you know?" returned the Canary.

"No; for the first time we noticed you in the Magic Picture, you were
just a bird, as you are now. But we've guessed that the giant woman had
transformed you, as she did the others."

"Yes; I'm Polychrome, the Rainbow's Daughter," announced the Canary.

"Goodness me!" cried Dorothy. "How dreadful."

"Well, I make a rather pretty bird, I think," returned Polychrome, "but
of course I'm anxious to resume my own shape and get back upon my
rainbow."

"Ozma will help you, I'm sure," said Dorothy. "How does it feel,
Scarecrow, to be a Bear?" she asked, addressing her old friend.

"I don't like it," declared the Scarecrow Bear. "This brutal form is
quite beneath the dignity of a wholesome straw man."

"And think of me," said the Owl, perching upon the dashboard of the Red
Wagon with much noisy clattering of his tin feathers. "Don't I look
horrid, Dorothy, with eyes several sizes too big for my body, and so
weak that I ought to wear spectacles?"

"Well," said Dorothy critically, as she looked him over, "you're
nothing to brag of, I must confess. But Ozma will soon fix you up
again."

The Green Monkey had hung back, bashful at meeting two lovely girls
while in the form of a beast; but Jinjur now took his hand and led him
forward while she introduced him to Ozma, and Woot managed to make a
low bow, not really ungraceful, before her girlish Majesty, the Ruler
of Oz.

"You have all been forced to endure a sad experience," said Ozma, "and
so I am anxious to do all in my power to break Mrs. Yoop's
enchantments. But first tell me how you happened to stray into that
lonely Valley where Yoop Castle stands."

Between them they related the object of their journey, the Scarecrow
Bear telling of the Tin Woodman's resolve to find Nimmie Amee and marry
her, as a just reward for her loyalty to him. Woot told of their
adventures with the Loons of Loonville, and the Tin Owl described the
manner in which they had been captured and transformed by the Giantess.
Then Polychrome related her story, and when all had been told, and
Dorothy had several times reproved Toto for growling at the Tin Owl,
Ozma remained thoughtful for a while, pondering upon what she had
heard. Finally she looked up, and with one of her delightful smiles,
said to the anxious group:

"I am not sure my magic will be able to restore every one of you,
because your transformations are of such a strange and unusual
character. Indeed, Mrs. Yoop was quite justified in believing no power
could alter her enchantments. However, I am sure I can restore the
Scarecrow to his original shape. He was stuffed with straw from the
beginning, and even the yookoohoo magic could not alter that. The
Giantess was merely able to make a bear's shape of a man's shape, but
the bear is stuffed with straw, just as the man was. So I feel
confident I can make a man of the bear again."

"Hurrah!" cried the Brown Bear, and tried clumsily to dance a jig of
delight.

"As for the Tin Woodman, his case is much the same," resumed Ozma,
still smiling. "The power of the Giantess could not make him anything
but a tin creature, whatever shape she transformed him into, so it will
not be impossible to restore him to his manly form. Anyhow, I shall
test my magic at once, and see if it will do what I have promised."

She drew from her bosom a small silver Wand and, making passes with the
Wand over the head of the Bear, she succeeded in the brief space of a
moment in breaking his enchantment. The original Scarecrow of Oz again
stood before them, well stuffed with straw and with his features nicely
painted upon the bag which formed his head.

The Scarecrow was greatly delighted, as you may suppose, and he
strutted proudly around while the powerful fairy, Ozma of Oz, broke the
enchantment that had transformed the Tin Woodman and made a Tin Owl
into a Tin Man again.

"Now, then," chirped the Canary, eagerly; "I'm next, Ozma!"

"But your case is different," replied Ozma, no longer smiling but
wearing a grave expression on her sweet face. "I shall have to
experiment on you, Polychrome, and I may fail in all my attempts."

She then tried two or three different methods of magic, hoping one of
them would succeed in breaking Polychrome's enchantment, but still the
Rainbow's Daughter remained a Canary-Bird. Finally, however, she
experimented in another way. She transformed the Canary into a Dove,
and then transformed the Dove into a Speckled Hen, and then changed the
Speckled Hen into a rabbit, and then the rabbit into a Fawn. And at the
last, after mixing several powders and sprinkling them upon the Fawn,
the yookoohoo enchantment was suddenly broken and before them stood one
of the daintiest and loveliest creatures in any fairyland in the world.
Polychrome was as sweet and merry in disposition as she was beautiful,
and when she danced and capered around in delight, her beautiful hair
floated around her like a golden mist and her many-hued raiment, as
soft as cobwebs, reminded one of drifting clouds in a summer sky.

Woot was so awed by the entrancing sight of this exquisite Sky Fairy
that he quite forgot his own sad plight until be noticed Ozma gazing
upon him with an intent expression that denoted sympathy and sorrow.
Dorothy whispered in her friend's ear, but the Ruler of Oz shook her
head sadly.

Jinjur, noticing this and understanding Ozma's looks, took the paw of
the Green Monkey in her own hand and patted it softly.

"Never mind," she said to him. "You are a very beautiful color, and a
monkey can climb better than a boy and do a lot of other things no boy
can ever do."

"What's the matter?" asked Woot, a sinking feeling at his heart. "Is
Ozma's magic all used up?"

Ozma herself answered him.

"Your form of enchantment, my poor boy," she said pityingly, "is
different from that of the others. Indeed, it is a form that is
impossible to alter by any magic known to fairies or yookoohoos. The
wicked Giantess was well aware, when she gave you the form of a Green
Monkey, that the Green Monkey must exist in the Land of Oz for all
future time."

Woot drew a long sigh.

"Well, that's pretty hard luck," he said bravely, "but if it can't be
helped I must endure it; that's all. I don't like being a monkey, but
what's the use of kicking against my fate?"

They were all very sorry for him, and Dorothy anxiously asked Ozma:

"Couldn't Glinda save him?"

"No," was the reply. "Glinda's power in transformations is no greater
than my own. Before I left my palace I went to my Magic Room and
studied Woot's case very carefully. I found that no power can do away
with the Green Monkey. He might transfer, or exchange his form with
some other person, it is true; but the Green Monkey we cannot get rid
of by any magic arts known to science."

"But--see here," said the Scarecrow, who had listened intently to this
explanation, "why not put the monkey's form on some one else?"

"Who would agree to make the change?" asked Ozma. "If by force we
caused anyone else to become a Green Monkey, we would be as cruel and
wicked as Mrs. Yoop. And what good would an exchange do?" she
continued. "Suppose, for instance, we worked the enchantment, and made
Toto into a Green Monkey. At the same moment Woot would become a little
dog."

"Leave me out of your magic, please," said Toto, with a reproachful
growl. "I wouldn't become a Green Monkey for anything."

"And I wouldn't become a dog," said Woot. "A green monkey is much
better than a dog, it seems to me."

"That is only a matter of opinion," answered Toto.

"Now, here's another idea," said the Scarecrow. "My brains are working
finely today, you must admit. Why not transform Toto into Woot the
Wanderer, and then have them exchange forms? The dog would become a
green monkey and the monkey would have his own natural shape again."

"To be sure!" cried Jinjur. "That's a fine idea."

"Leave me out of it," said Toto. "I won't do it."

"Wouldn't you be willing to become a green monkey--see what a pretty
color it is--so that this poor boy could be restored to his own shape?"
asked Jinjur, pleadingly.

"No," said Toto.

"I don't like that plan the least bit," declared Dorothy, "for then I
wouldn't have any little dog."

"But you'd have a green monkey in his place," persisted Jinjur, who
liked Woot and wanted to help him.

"I don't want a green monkey," said Dorothy positively.

"Don't speak of this again, I beg of you," said Woot. "This is my own
misfortune and I would rather suffer it alone than deprive Princess
Dorothy of her dog, or deprive the dog of his proper shape. And perhaps
even her Majesty, Ozma of Oz, might not be able to transform anyone
else into the shape of Woot the Wanderer."

"Yes; I believe I might do that," Ozma returned; "but Woot is quite
right; we are not justified in inflicting upon anyone--man or dog--the
form of a green monkey. Also it is certain that in order to relieve the
boy of the form he now wears, we must give it to someone else, who
would be forced to wear it always."

"I wonder," said Dorothy, thoughtfully, "if we couldn't find someone in
the Land of Oz who would be willing to become a green monkey? Seems to
me a monkey is active and spry, and he can climb trees and do a lot of
clever things, and green isn't a bad color for a monkey--it makes him
unusual."

"I wouldn't ask anyone to take this dreadful form," said Woot; "it
wouldn't be right, you know. I've been a monkey for some time, now, and
I don't like it. It makes me ashamed to be a beast of this sort when by
right of birth I'm a boy; so I'm sure it would be wicked to ask anyone
else to take my place."

They were all silent, for they knew he spoke the truth. Dorothy was
almost ready to cry with pity and Ozma's sweet face was sad and
disturbed. The Scarecrow rubbed and patted his stuffed head to try to
make it think better, while the Tin Woodman went into the house and
began to oil his tin joints so that the sorrow of his friends might not
cause him to weep. Weeping is liable to rust tin, and the Emperor
prided himself upon his highly polished body--now doubly dear to him
because for a time he had been deprived of it.

Polychrome had danced down the garden paths and back again a dozen
times, for she was seldom still a moment, yet she had heard Ozma's
speech and understood very well Woot's unfortunate position. But the
Rainbow's Daughter, even while dancing, could think and reason very
clearly, and suddenly she solved the problem in the nicest possible
way. Coming close to Ozma, she said:

"Your Majesty, all this trouble was caused by the wickedness of Mrs.
Yoop, the Giantess. Yet even now that cruel woman is living in her
secluded castle, enjoying the thought that she has put this terrible
enchantment on Woot the Wanderer. Even now she is laughing at our
despair because we can find no way to get rid of the green monkey. Very
well, we do not wish to get rid of it. Let the woman who created the
form wear it herself, as a just punishment for her wickedness. I am
sure your fairy power can give to Mrs. Yoop the form of Woot the
Wanderer--even at this distance from her--and then it will be possible
to exchange the two forms. Mrs. Yoop will become the Green Monkey, and
Woot will recover his own form again."

Ozma's face brightened as she listened to this clever proposal.

"Thank you, Polychrome," said she. "The task you propose Is not so easy
as you suppose, but I will make the attempt, and perhaps I may succeed."




Chapter Fourteen

The Green Monkey


They now entered the house, and as an interested group, watched Jinjur,
at Ozma's command, build a fire and put a kettle of water over to boil.
The Ruler of Oz stood before the fire silent and grave, while the
others, realizing that an important ceremony of magic was about to be
performed, stood quietly in the background so as not to interrupt
Ozma's proceedings. Only Polychrome kept going in and coming out,
humming softly to herself as she danced, for the Rainbow's Daughter
could not keep still for long, and the four walls of a room always made
her nervous and ill at ease. She moved so noiselessly, however, that
her movements were like the shifting of sunbeams and did not annoy
anyone.

When the water in the kettle bubbled, Ozma drew from her bosom two tiny
packets containing powders. These powders she threw into the kettle and
after briskly stirring the contents with a branch from a macaroon bush,
Ozma poured the mystic broth upon a broad platter which Jinjur had
placed upon the table. As the broth cooled it became as silver,
reflecting all objects from its smooth surface like a mirror.

While her companions gathered around the table, eagerly attentive--and
Dorothy even held little Toto in her arms that he might see--Ozma waved
her wand over the mirror-like surface. At once it reflected the
interior of Yoop Castle, and in the big hall sat Mrs. Yoop, in her best
embroidered silken robes, engaged in weaving a new lace apron to
replace the one she had lost.

The Giantess seemed rather uneasy, as if she had a faint idea that
someone was spying upon her, for she kept looking behind her and this
way and that, as though expecting danger from an unknown source.
Perhaps some yookoohoo instinct warned her. Woot saw that she had
escaped from her room by some of the magical means at her disposal,
after her prisoners had escaped her. She was now occupying the big hall
of her castle as she used to do. Also Woot thought, from the cruel
expression on the face of the Giantess, that she was planning revenge
on them, as soon as her new magic apron was finished.

But Ozma was now making passes over the platter with her silver Wand,
and presently the form of the Giantess began to shrink in size and to
change its shape. And now, in her place sat the form of Woot the
Wanderer, and as if suddenly realizing her transformation Mrs. Yoop
threw down her work and rushed to a looking-glass that stood against
the wall of her room. When she saw the boy's form reflected as her own,
she grew violently angry and dashed her head against the mirror,
smashing it to atoms.

Just then Ozma was busy with her magic Wand, making strange figures,
and she had also placed her left hand firmly upon the shoulder of the
Green Monkey. So now, as all eyes were turned upon the platter, the
form of Mrs. Yoop gradually changed again. She was slowly transformed
into the Green Monkey, and at the same time Woot slowly regained his
natural form.

It was quite a surprise to them all when they raised their eyes from
the platter and saw Woot the Wanderer standing beside Ozma. And, when
they glanced at the platter again, it reflected nothing more than the
walls of the room in Jinjur's house in which they stood. The magic
ceremonial was ended, and Ozma of Oz had triumphed over the wicked
Giantess.

"What will become of her, I wonder?" said Dorothy, as she drew a long
breath.

"She will always remain a Green Monkey," replied Ozma, "and in that
form she will be unable to perform any magical arts whatsoever. She
need not be unhappy, however, and as she lives all alone in her castle
she probably won't mind the transformation very much after she gets
used to it."

"Anyhow, it serves her right," declared Dorothy, and all agreed with
her.

"But," said the kind hearted Tin Woodman, "I'm afraid the Green Monkey
will starve, for Mrs. Yoop used to get her food by magic, and now that
the magic is taken away from her, what can she eat?"

"Why, she'll eat what other monkeys do," returned the Scarecrow. "Even
in the form of a Green Monkey, she's a very clever person, and I'm sure
her wits will show her how to get plenty to eat."

"Don't worry about her," advised Dorothy. "She didn't worry about you,
and her condition is no worse than the condition she imposed on poor
Woot. She can't starve to death in the Land of Oz, that's certain, and
if she gets hungry at times it's no more than the wicked thing
deserves. Let's forget Mrs. Yoop; for, in spite of her being a
yookoohoo, our fairy friends have broken all of her transformations."




Chapter Fifteen

The Man of Tin


Ozma and Dorothy were quite pleased with Woot the Wanderer, whom they
found modest and intelligent and very well mannered. The boy was truly
grateful for his release from the cruel enchantment, and he promised to
love, revere and defend the girl Ruler of Oz forever afterward, as a
faithful subject.

"You may visit me at my palace, if you wish," said Ozma, "where I will
be glad to introduce you to two other nice boys, Ojo the Munchkin and
Button-Bright."

"Thank your Majesty," replied Woot, and then he turned to the Tin
Woodman and inquired: "What are your further plans, Mr. Emperor? Will
you still seek Nimmie Amee and marry her, or will you abandon the quest
and return to the Emerald City and your own castle?"

The Tin Woodman, now as highly polished and well-oiled as ever,
reflected a while on this question and then answered:

"Well, I see no reason why I should not find Nimmie Amee. We are now in
the Munchkin Country, where we are perfectly safe, and if it was right
for me, before our enchantment, to marry Nimmie Amee and make her
Empress of the Winkies, it must be right now, when the enchantment has
been broken and I am once more myself. Am I correct, friend Scarecrow?"

"You are, indeed," answered the Scarecrow. "No one can oppose such
logic."

"But I'm afraid you don't love Nimmie Amee," suggested Dorothy.

"That is just because I can't love anyone," replied the Tin Woodman.
"But, if I cannot love my wife, I can at least be kind to her, and all
husbands are not able to do that."

"Do you s'pose Nimmie Amee still loves you, after all these years?"
asked Dorothy.

"I'm quite sure of it, and that is why I am going to her to make her
happy. Woot the Wanderer thinks I ought to reward her for being
faithful to me after my meat body was chopped to pieces and I became
tin. What do you think, Ozma?"

Ozma smiled as she said:

"I do not know your Nimmie Amee, and so I cannot tell what she most
needs to make her happy. But there is no harm in your going to her and
asking her if she still wishes to marry you. If she does, we will give
you a grand wedding at the Emerald City and, afterward, as Empress of
the Winkies, Nimmie Amee would become one of the most important ladies
in all Oz."

So it was decided that the Tin Woodman would continue his journey, and
that the Scarecrow and Woot the Wanderer should accompany him, as
before. Polychrome also decided to join their party, somewhat to the
surprise of all.

"I hate to be cooped up in a palace," she said to Ozma, "and of course
the first time I meet my Rainbow I shall return to my own dear home in
the skies, where my fairy sisters are even now awaiting me and my
father is cross because I get lost so often. But I can find my Rainbow
just as quickly while traveling in the Munchkin Country as I could if
living in the Emerald City--or any other place in Oz--so I shall go
with the Tin Woodman and help him woo Nimmie Amee."

Dorothy wanted to go, too, but as the Tin Woodman did not invite her to
join his party, she felt she might be intruding if she asked to be
taken. She hinted, but she found he didn't take the hint. It is quite a
delicate matter for one to ask a girl to marry him, however much she
loves him, and perhaps the Tin Woodman did not desire to have too many
looking on when he found his old sweetheart, Nimmie Amee. So Dorothy
contented herself with the thought that she would help Ozma prepare a
splendid wedding feast, to be followed by a round of parties and
festivities when the Emperor of the Winkies reached the Emerald City
with his bride.

Ozma offered to take them all in the Red Wagon to a place as near to
the great Munchkin forest as a wagon could get. The Red Wagon was big
enough to seat them all, and so, bidding good-bye to Jinjur, who gave
Woot a basket of ripe cream-puffs and caramels to take with him, Ozma
commanded the Wooden Sawhorse to start, and the strange creature moved
swiftly over the lanes and presently came to the Road of Yellow Bricks.
This road led straight to a dense forest, where the path was too narrow
for the Red Wagon to proceed farther, so here the party separated.

Ozma and Dorothy and Toto returned to the Emerald City, after wishing
their friends a safe and successful journey, while the Tin Woodman, the
Scarecrow, Woot the Wanderer and Polychrome, the Rainbow's Daughter,
prepared to push their way through the thick forest. However, these
forest paths were well known to the Tin Man and the Scarecrow, who felt
quite at home among the trees.

"I was born in this grand forest," said Nick Chopper, the tin Emperor,
speaking proudly, "and it was here that the Witch enchanted my axe and
I lost different parts of my meat body until I became all tin. Here,
also--for it is a big forest--Nimmie Amee lived with the Wicked Witch,
and at the other edge of the trees stands the cottage of my friend
Ku-Klip, the famous tinsmith who made my present beautiful form."

"He must be a clever workman," declared Woot, admiringly.

"He is simply wonderful," declared the Tin Woodman.

"I shall be glad to make his acquaintance," said Woot.

"If you wish to meet with real cleverness," remarked the Scarecrow,
"you should visit the Munchkin farmer who first made me. I won't say
that my friend the Emperor isn't all right for a tin man, but any judge
of beauty can understand that a Scarecrow is far more artistic and
refined."

"You are too soft and flimsy," said the Tin Woodman.

"You are too hard and stiff," said the Scarecrow, and this was as near
to quarreling as the two friends ever came. Polychrome laughed at them
both, as well she might, and Woot hastened to change the subject.

At night they all camped underneath the trees. The boy ate cream-puffs
for supper and offered Polychrome some, but she preferred other food
and at daybreak sipped the dew that was clustered thick on the forest
flowers. Then they tramped onward again, and presently the Scarecrow
paused and said:

"It was on this very spot that Dorothy and I first met the Tin Woodman,
who was rusted so badly that none of his joints would move. But after
we had oiled him up, he was as good as new and accompanied us to the
Emerald City."

"Ah, that was a sad experience," asserted the Tin Woodman soberly. "I
was caught in a rainstorm while chopping down a tree for exercise, and
before I realized it, I was firmly rusted in every joint. There I
stood, axe in hand, but unable to move, for days and weeks and months!
Indeed, I have never known exactly how long the time was; but finally
along came Dorothy and I was saved. See! This is the very tree I was
chopping at the time I rusted."

"You cannot be far from your old home, in that case," said Woot.

"No; my little cabin stands not a great way off, but there is no
occasion for us to visit it. Our errand is with Nimmie Amee, and her
house is somewhat farther away, to the left of us."

"Didn't you say she lives with a Wicked Witch, who makes her a slave?"
asked the boy.

"She did, but she doesn't," was the reply. "I am told the Witch was
destroyed when Dorothy's house fell on her, so now Nimmie Amee must
live all alone. I haven't seen her, of course, since the Witch was
crushed, for at that time I was standing rusted in the forest and had
been there a long time, but the poor girl must have felt very happy to
be free from her cruel mistress."

"Well," said the Scarecrow, "let's travel on and find Nimmie Amee. Lead
on, your Majesty, since you know the way, and we will follow."

So the Tin Woodman took a path that led through the thickest part of
the forest, and they followed it for some time. The light was dim here,
because vines and bushes and leafy foliage were all about them, and
often the Tin Man had to push aside the branches that obstructed their
way, or cut them off with his axe. After they had proceeded some
distance, the Emperor suddenly stopped short and exclaimed: "Good
gracious!"

The Scarecrow, who was next, first bumped into his friend and then
peered around his tin body, and said in a tone of wonder:

"Well, I declare!"

Woot the Wanderer pushed forward to see what was the matter, and cried
out in astonishment: "For goodness' sake!"

Then the three stood motionless, staring hard, until Polychrome's merry
laughter rang out behind them and aroused them from their stupor.

In the path before them stood a tin man who was the exact duplicate of
the Tin Woodman. He was of the same size, he was jointed in the same
manner, and he was made of shining tin from top to toe. But he stood
immovable, with his tin jaws half parted and his tin eyes turned
upward. In one of his hands was held a long, gleaming sword. Yes, there
was the difference, the only thing that distinguished him from the
Emperor of the Winkies. This tin man bore a sword, while the Tin
Woodman bore an axe.

"It's a dream; it must be a dream!" gasped Woot.

"That's it, of course," said the Scarecrow; "there couldn't be two Tin
Woodmen."

"No," agreed Polychrome, dancing nearer to the stranger, "this one is a
Tin Soldier. Don't you see his sword?"

The Tin Woodman cautiously put out one tin hand and felt of his
double's arm. Then he said in a voice that trembled with emotion:

"Who are you, friend?"

There was no reply

"Can't you see he's rusted, just as you were once?" asked Polychrome,
laughing again. "Here, Nick Chopper, lend me your oil-can a minute!"

The Tin Woodman silently handed her his oil-can, without which he never
traveled, and Polychrome first oiled the stranger's tin jaws and then
worked them gently to and fro until the Tin Soldier said:

"That's enough. Thank you. I can now talk. But please oil my other
joints."

Woot seized the oil-can and did this, but all the others helped wiggle
the soldier's joints as soon as they were oiled, until they moved
freely.

The Tin Soldier seemed highly pleased at his release. He strutted up
and down the path, saying in a high, thin voice:

  "The Soldier is a splendid man
    When marching on parade,
  And when he meets the enemy
    He never is afraid.

  He rights the wrongs of nations,
    His country's flag defends,
  The foe he'll fight with great delight,
    But seldom fights his friends."




Chapter Sixteen

Captain Fyter


"Are you really a soldier?" asked Woot, when they had all watched this
strange tin person parade up and down the path and proudly flourish his
sword.

"I was a soldier," was the reply, "but I've been a prisoner to Mr. Rust
so long that I don't know exactly what I am."

"But--dear me!" cried the Tin Woodman, sadly perplexed; "how came you
to be made of tin?"

"That," answered the Soldier, "is a sad, sad story I was in love with a
beautiful Munchkin girl, who lived with a Wicked Witch. The Witch did
not wish me to marry the girl, so she enchanted my sword, which began
hacking me to pieces. When I lost my legs I went to the tinsmith,
Ku-Klip, and he made me some tin legs. When I lost my arms, Ku-Klip
made me tin arms, and when I lost my head he made me this fine one out
of tin. It was the same way with my body, and finally I was all tin.
But I was not unhappy, for Ku-Klip made a good job of me, having had
experience in making another tin man before me."

"Yes," observed the Tin Woodman, "it was Ku-Klip who made me. But, tell
me, what was the name of the Munchkin girl you were in love with?"

"She is called Nimmie Amee," said the Tin Soldier.

Hearing this, they were all so astonished that they were silent for a
time, regarding the stranger with wondering looks. Finally the Tin
Woodman ventured to ask:

"And did Nimmie Amee return your love?"

"Not at first," admitted the Soldier. "When first I marched into the
forest and met her, she was weeping over the loss of her former
sweetheart, a woodman whose name was Nick Chopper."

"That is me," said the Tin Woodman.

"She told me he was nicer than a soldier, because he was all made of
tin and shone beautifully in the sun. She said a tin man appealed to
her artistic instincts more than an ordinary meat man, as I was then.
But I did not despair, because her tin sweetheart had disappeared, and
could not be found. And finally Nimmie Amee permitted me to call upon
her and we became friends. It was then that the Wicked Witch discovered
me and became furiously angry when I said I wanted to marry the girl.
She enchanted my sword, as I said, and then my troubles began. When I
got my tin legs, Nimmie Amee began to take an interest in me; when I
got my tin arms, she began to like me better than ever, and when I was
all made of tin, she said I looked like her dear Nick Chopper and she
would be willing to marry me.

"The day of our wedding was set, and it turned out to be a rainy day.
Nevertheless I started out to get Nimmie Amee, because the Witch had
been absent for some time, and we meant to elope before she got back.
As I traveled the forest paths the rain wetted my joints, but I paid no
attention to this because my thoughts were all on my wedding with
beautiful Nimmie Amee and I could think of nothing else until suddenly
my legs stopped moving. Then my arms rusted at the joints and I became
frightened and cried for help, for now I was unable to oil myself. No
one heard my calls and before long my jaws rusted, and I was unable to
utter another sound. So I stood helpless in this spot, hoping some
wanderer would come my way and save me. But this forest path is seldom
used, and I have been standing here so long that I have lost all track
of time. In my mind I composed poetry and sang songs, but not a sound
have I been able to utter. But this desperate condition has now been
relieved by your coming my way and I must thank you for my rescue."

"This is wonderful!" said the Scarecrow, heaving a stuffy, long sigh.
"I think Ku-Klip was wrong to make two tin men, just alike, and the
strangest thing of all is that both you tin men fell in love with the
same girl."

"As for that," returned the Soldier, seriously, "I must admit I lost my
ability to love when I lost my meat heart. Ku-Klip gave me a tin heart,
to be sure, but it doesn't love anything, as far as I can discover, and
merely rattles against my tin ribs, which makes me wish I had no heart
at all."

"Yet, in spite of this condition, you were going to marry Nimmie Amee?"

"Well, you see I had promised to marry her, and I am an honest man and
always try to keep my promises. I didn't like to disappoint the poor
girl, who had been disappointed by one tin man already."

"That was not my fault," declared the Emperor of the Winkies, and then
he related how he, also, had rusted in the forest and after a long time
had been rescued by Dorothy and the Scarecrow and had traveled with
them to the Emerald City in search of a heart that could love.

"If you have found such a heart, sir," said the Soldier, "I will gladly
allow you to marry Nimmie Amee in my place."

"If she loves you best, sir," answered the Woodman, "I shall not
interfere with your wedding her. For, to be quite frank with you, I
cannot yet love Nimmie Amee as I did before I became tin."

"Still, one of you ought to marry the poor girl," remarked Woot; "and,
if she likes tin men, there is not much choice between you. Why don't
you draw lots for her?"

"That wouldn't be right," said the Scarecrow.

"The girl should be permitted to choose her own husband," asserted
Polychrome. "You should both go to her and allow her to take her
choice. Then she will surely be happy."

"That, to me, seems a very fair arrangement," said the Tin Soldier.

"I agree to it," said the Tin Woodman, shaking the hand of his twin to
show the matter was settled. "May I ask your name, sir?" he continued.

"Before I was so cut up," replied the other, "I was known as Captain
Fyter, but afterward I was merely called 'The Tin Soldier.'"

"Well, Captain, if you are agreeable, let us now go to Nimmie Amee's
house and let her choose between us."

"Very well; and if we meet the Witch, we will both fight her--you with
your axe and I with my sword."

"The Witch is destroyed," announced the Scarecrow, and as they walked
away he told the Tin Soldier of much that had happened in the Land of
Oz since he had stood rusted in the forest.

"I must have stood there longer than I had imagined," he said
thoughtfully.




Chapter Seventeen

The Workshop of Ku-Klip


It was not more than a two hours' journey to the house where Nimmie
Amee had lived, but when our travelers arrived there they found the
place deserted. The door was partly off its hinges, the roof had fallen
in at the rear and the interior of the cottage was thick with dust. Not
only was the place vacant, but it was evident that no one had lived
there for a long time.

"I suppose," said the Scarecrow, as they all stood looking wonderingly
at the ruined house, "that after the Wicked Witch was destroyed, Nimmie
Amee became lonely and went somewhere else to live."

"One could scarcely expect a young girl to live all alone in a forest,"
added Woot. "She would want company, of course, and so I believe she
has gone where other people live."

"And perhaps she is still crying her poor little heart out because no
tin man comes to marry her," suggested Polychrome.

"Well, in that case, it is the clear duty of you two tin persons to
seek Nimmie Amee until you find her," declared the Scarecrow.

"I do not know where to look for the girl," said the Tin Soldier, "for
I am almost a stranger to this part of the country."

"I was born here," said the Tin Woodman, "but the forest has few
inhabitants except the wild beasts. I cannot think of anyone living
near here with whom Nimmie Amee might care to live."

"Why not go to Ku-Klip and ask him what has become of the girl?"
proposed Polychrome.

That struck them all as being a good suggestion, so once more they
started to tramp through the forest, taking the direct path to
Ku-Klip's house, for both the tin twins knew the way, having followed
it many times.

Ku-Klip lived at the far edge of the great forest, his house facing the
broad plains of the Munchkin Country that lay to the eastward. But,
when they came to this residence by the forest's edge, the tinsmith was
not at home.

It was a pretty place, all painted dark blue with trimmings of lighter
blue. There was a neat blue fence around the yard and several blue
benches had been placed underneath the shady blue trees which marked
the line between forest and plain. There was a blue lawn before the
house, which was a good sized building. Ku-Klip lived in the front part
of the house and had his work-shop in the back part, where he had also
built a lean-to addition, in order to give him more room.

Although they found the tinsmith absent on their arrival, there was
smoke coming out of his chimney, which proved that he would soon return.

"And perhaps Nimmie Amee will be with him," said the Scarecrow in a
cheerful voice.

While they waited, the Tin Woodman went to the door of the workshop
and, finding it unlocked, entered and looked curiously around the room
where he had been made.

"It seems almost like home to me," hie told his friends, who had
followed him in. "The first time I came here I had lost a leg, so I had
to carry it in my hand while I hopped on the other leg all the way from
the place in the forest where the enchanted axe cut me. I remember that
old Ku-Klip carefully put my meat leg into a barrel--I think that is
the same barrel, still standing in the corner yonder--and then at once
he began to make a tin leg for me. He worked fast and with skill, and I
was much interested in the job."

"My experience was much the same," said the Tin Soldier. "I used to
bring all the parts of me, which the enchanted sword had cut away, here
to the tinsmith, and Ku-Klip would put them into the barrel."

"I wonder," said Woot, "if those cast-off parts of you two unfortunates
are still in that barrel in the corner?"

"I suppose so." replied the Tin Woodman. "In the Land of Oz no part of
a living creature can ever be destroyed."

"If that is true, how was that Wicked Witch destroyed?" inquired Woot.

"Why, she was very old and was all dried up and withered before Oz
became a fairyland," explained the Scarecrow. "Only her magic arts had
kept her alive so long, and when Dorothy's house fell upon her she just
turned to dust, and was blown away and scattered by the wind. I do not
think, however, that the parts cut away from these two young men could
ever be entirely destroyed and, if they are still in those barrels,
they are likely to be just the same as when the enchanted axe or sword
severed them."

"It doesn't matter, however," said the Tin Woodman; "our tin bodies are
more brilliant and durable, and quite satisfy us."

"Yes, the tin bodies are best," agreed the Tin Soldier. "Nothing can
hurt them."

"Unless they get dented or rusted," said Woot, but both the tin men
frowned on him.

Scraps of tin, of all shapes and sizes, lay scattered around the
workshop. Also there were hammers and anvils and soldering irons and a
charcoal furnace and many other tools such as a tinsmith works with.
Against two of the side walls had been built stout work-benches and in
the center of the room was a long table. At the end of the shop, which
adjoined the dwelling, were several cupboards.

After examining the interior of the workshop until his curiosity was
satisfied, Woot said:

"I think I will go outside until Ku-Klip comes. It does not seem quite
proper for us to take possession of his house while he is absent."

"That is true," agreed the Scarecrow, and they were all about to leave
the room when the Tin Woodman said: "Wait a minute," and they halted in
obedience to the command.




Chapter Eighteen

The Tin Woodman Talks to Himself


The Tin Woodman had just noticed the cupboards and was curious to know
what they contained, so he went to one of them and opened the door.
There were shelves inside, and upon one of the shelves which was about
on a level with his tin chin the Emperor discovered a Head--it looked
like a doll's head, only it was larger, and he soon saw it was the Head
of some person. It was facing the Tin Woodman and as the cupboard door
swung back, the eyes of the Head slowly opened and looked at him. The
Tin Woodman was not at all surprised, for in the Land of Oz one runs
into magic at every turn.

"Dear me!" said the Tin Woodman, staring hard. "It seems as if I had
met you, somewhere, before. Good morning, sir!"

"You have the advantage of me," replied the Head. "I never saw you
before in my life."

"Still, your face is very familiar," persisted the Tin Woodman. "Pardon
me, but may I ask if you--eh--eh--if you ever had a Body?"

"Yes, at one time," answered the Head, "but that is so long ago I can't
remember it. Did you think," with a pleasant smile, "that I was born
just as I am? That a Head would be created without a Body?"

"No, of course not," said the other. "But how came you to lose your
body?"

"Well, I can't recollect the details; you'll have to ask Ku-Klip about
it," returned the Head. "For, curious as it may seem to you, my memory
is not good since my separation from the rest of me. I still possess my
brains and my intellect is as good as ever, but my memory of some of
the events I formerly experienced is quite hazy."

"How long have you been in this cupboard?" asked the Emperor.

"I don't know."

"Haven't you a name?"

"Oh, yes," said the Head; "I used to be called Nick Chopper, when I was
a woodman and cut down trees for a living."

"Good gracious!" cried the Tin Woodman in astonishment. "If you are
Nick Chopper's Head, then you are Me--or I'm You--or--or--What relation
are we, anyhow?"

"Don't ask me," replied the Head. "For my part, I'm not anxious to
claim relationship with any common, manufactured article, like you. You
may be all right in your class, but your class isn't my class. You're
tin."

The poor Emperor felt so bewildered that for a time he could only stare
at his old Head in silence. Then he said:

"I must admit that I wasn't at all bad looking before I became tin.
You're almost handsome--for meat. If your hair was combed, you'd be
quite attractive."

"How do you expect me to comb my hair without help?" demanded the Head,
indignantly. "I used to keep it smooth and neat, when I had arms, but
after I was removed from the rest of me, my hair got mussed, and old
Ku-Klip never has combed it for me."

"I'll speak to him about it," said the Tin Woodman. "Do you remember
loving a pretty Munchkin girl named Nimmie Amee?"

"No," answered the Head. "That is a foolish question. The heart in my
body--when I had a body--might have loved someone, for all I know, but
a head isn't made to love; it's made to think."

"Oh; do you think, then?"

"I used to think."

"You must have been shut up in this cupboard for years and years. What
have you thought about, in all that time?"

"Nothing. That's another foolish question. A little reflection will
convince you that I have had nothing to think about, except the boards
on the inside of the cupboard door, and it didn't take me long to think
of everything about those boards that could be thought of. Then, of
course, I quit thinking."

"And are you happy?"

"Happy? What's that?"

"Don't you know what happiness is?" inquired the Tin Woodman.

"I haven't the faintest idea whether it's round or square, or black or
white, or what it is. And, if you will pardon my lack of interest in
it, I will say that I don't care."

The Tin Woodman was much puzzled by these answers. His traveling
companions had grouped themselves at his back, and had fixed their eyes
on the Head and listened to the conversation with much interest, but
until now, they had not interrupted because they thought the Tin
Woodman had the best right to talk to his own head and renew
acquaintance with it.

But now the Tin Soldier remarked:

"I wonder if my old head happens to be in any of these cupboards," and
he proceeded to open all the cupboard doors. But no other head was to
be found on any of the shelves.

"Oh, well; never mind," said Woot the Wanderer; "I can't imagine what
anyone wants of a cast-off head, anyhow."

"I can understand the Soldier's interest," asserted Polychrome, dancing
around the grimy workshop until her draperies formed a cloud around her
dainty form. "For sentimental reasons a man might like to see his old
head once more, just as one likes to revisit an old home."

"And then to kiss it good-bye," added the Scarecrow.

"I hope that tin thing won't try to kiss me good-bye!" exclaimed the
Tin Woodman's former head. "And I don't see what right you folks have
to disturb my peace and comfort, either."

"You belong to me," the Tin Woodman declared.

"I do not!"

"You and I are one."

"We've been parted," asserted the Head. "It would be unnatural for me
to have any interest in a man made of tin. Please close the door and
leave me alone."

"I did not think that my old Head could be so disagreeable," said the
Emperor. "I--I'm quite ashamed of myself; meaning you."

"You ought to be glad that I've enough sense to know what my rights
are," retorted the Head. "In this cupboard I am leading a simple life,
peaceful and dignified, and when a mob of people in whom I am not
interested disturb me, they are the disagreeable ones; not I."

With a sigh the Tin Woodman closed and latched the cupboard door and
turned away.

"Well," said the Tin Soldier, "if my old head would have treated me as
coldly and in so unfriendly a manner as your old head has treated you,
friend Chopper, I'm glad I could not find it."

"Yes; I'm rather surprised at my head, myself," replied the Tin
Woodman, thoughtfully. "I thought I had a more pleasant disposition
when I was made of meat."

But just then old Ku-Klip the Tinsmith arrived, and he seemed surprised
to find so many visitors. Ku-Klip was a stout man and a short man. He
had his sleeves rolled above his elbows, showing muscular arms, and he
wore a leathern apron that covered all the front of him, and was so
long that Woot was surprised he didn't step on it and trip whenever he
walked. And Ku-Klip had a gray beard that was almost as long as his
apron, and his head was bald on top and his ears stuck out from his
head like two fans. Over his eyes, which were bright and twinkling, he
wore big spectacles. It was easy to see that the tinsmith was a kind
hearted man, as well as a merry and agreeable one. "Oh-ho!" he cried in
a joyous bass voice; "here are both my tin men come to visit me, and
they and their friends are welcome indeed. I'm very proud of you two
characters, I assure you, for you are so perfect that you are proof
that I'm a good workman. Sit down. Sit down, all of you--if you can
find anything to sit on--and tell me why you are here."

So they found seats and told him all of their adventures that they
thought he would like to know. Ku-Klip was glad to learn that Nick
Chopper, the Tin Woodman, was now Emperor of the Winkies and a friend
of Ozma of Oz, and the tinsmith was also interested in the Scarecrow
and Polychrome.

He turned the straw man around, examining him curiously, and patted him
on all sides, and then said:

"You are certainly wonderful, but I think you would be more durable and
steady on your legs if you were made of tin. Would you like me to--"

"No, indeed!" interrupted the Scarecrow hastily; "I like myself better
as I am."

But to Polychrome the tinsmith said:

"Nothing could improve you, my dear, for you are the most beautiful
maiden I have ever seen. It is pure happiness just to look at you."

"That is praise, indeed, from so skillful a workman," returned the
Rainbow's Daughter, laughing and dancing in and out the room.

"Then it must be this boy you wish me to help," said Ku-Klip, looking
at Woot.

"No," said Woot, "we are not here to seek your skill, but have merely
come to you for information."

Then, between them, they related their search for Nimmie Amee, whom the
Tin Woodman explained he had resolved to marry, yet who had promised to
become the bride of the Tin Soldier before he unfortunately became
rusted. And when the story was told, they asked Ku-Klip if he knew what
had become of Nimmie Amee.

"Not exactly," replied the old man, "but I know that she wept bitterly
when the Tin Soldier did not come to marry her, as he had promised to
do. The old Witch was so provoked at the girl's tears that she beat
Nimmie Amee with her crooked stick and then hobbled away to gather some
magic herbs, with which she intended to transform the girl into an old
hag, so that no one would again love her or care to marry her. It was
while she was away on this errand that Dorothy's house fell on the
Wicked Witch, and she turned to dust and blew away. When I heard this
good news, I sent Nimmie Amee to find the Silver Shoes which the Witch
had worn, but Dorothy had taken them with her to the Emerald City."

"Yes, we know all about those Silver Shoes," said the Scarecrow.

"Well," continued Ku-Klip, "after that, Nimmie Amee decided to go away
from the forest and live with some people she was acquainted with who
had a house on Mount Munch. I have never seen the girl since."

"Do you know the name of the people on Mount Munch, with whom she went
to live?" asked the Tin Woodman.

"No, Nimmie Amee did not mention her friend's name, and I did not ask
her. She took with her all that she could carry of the goods that were
in the Witch's house, and she told me I could have the rest. But when I
went there I found nothing worth taking except some magic powders that
I did not know how to use, and a bottle of Magic Glue."

"What is Magic Glue?" asked Woot.

"It is a magic preparation with which to mend people when they cut
themselves. One time, long ago, I cut off one of my fingers by
accident, and I carried it to the Witch, who took down her bottle and
glued it on again for me. See!" showing them his finger, "it is as good
as ever it was. No one else that I ever heard of had this Magic Glue,
and of course when Nick Chopper cut himself to pieces with his
enchanted axe and Captain Fyter cut himself to pieces with his
enchanted sword, the Witch would not mend them, or allow me to glue
them together, because she had herself wickedly enchanted the axe and
sword. Nothing remained but for me to make them new parts out of tin;
but, as you see, tin answered the purpose very well, and I am sure
their tin bodies are a great improvement on their meat bodies."

"Very true," said the Tin Soldier.

"I quite agree with you," said the Tin Woodman. "I happened to find my
old head in your cupboard, a while ago, and certainly it is not as
desirable a head as the tin one I now wear."

"By the way," said the Tin Soldier, "what ever became of my old head,
Ku-Klip?"

"And of the different parts of our bodies?" added the Tin Woodman.

"Let me think a minute," replied Ku-Klip. "If I remember right, you two
boys used to bring me most of your parts, when they were cut off, and I
saved them in that barrel in the corner. You must not have brought me
all the parts, for when I made Chopfyt I had hard work finding enough
pieces to complete the job. I finally had to finish him with one arm."

"Who is Chopfyt?" inquired Woot.

"Oh, haven't I told you about Chopfyt?" exclaimed Ku-Klip. "Of course
not! And he's quite a curiosity, too. You'll be interested in hearing
about Chopfyt. This is how he happened:

"One day, after the Witch had been destroyed and Nimmie Amee had gone
to live with her friends on Mount Munch, I was looking around the shop
for something and came upon the bottle of Magic Glue which I had
brought from the old Witch's house. It occurred to me to piece together
the odds and ends of you two people, which of course were just as good
as ever, and see if I couldn't make a man out of them. If I succeeded,
I would have an assistant to help me with my work, and I thought it
would be a clever idea to put to some practical use the scraps of Nick
Chopper and Captain Fyter. There were two perfectly good heads in my
cupboard, and a lot of feet and legs and parts of bodies in the barrel,
so I set to work to see what I could do.

"First, I pieced together a body, gluing it with the Witch's Magic
Glue, which worked perfectly. That was the hardest part of my job,
however, because the bodies didn't match up well and some parts were
missing. But by using a piece of Captain Fyter here and a piece of Nick
Chopper there, I finally got together a very decent body, with heart
and all the trimmings complete."

"Whose heart did you use in making the body?" asked the Tin Woodman
anxiously.

"I can't tell, for the parts had no tags on them and one heart looks
much like another. After the body was completed, I glued two fine legs
and feet onto it. One leg was Nick Chopper's and one was Captain
Fyter's and, finding one leg longer than the other, I trimmed it down
to make them match. I was much disappointed to find that I had but one
arm. There was an extra leg in the barrel, but I could find only one
arm. Having glued this onto the body, I was ready for the head, and I
had some difficulty in making up my mind which head to use. Finally I
shut my eyes and reached out my hand toward the cupboard shelf, and the
first head I touched I glued upon my new man."

"It was mine!" declared the Tin Soldier, gloomily.

"No, it was mine," asserted Ku-Klip, "for I had given you another in
exchange for it--the beautiful tin head you now wear. When the glue had
dried, my man was quite an interesting fellow. I named him Chopfyt,
using a part of Nick Chopper's name and a part of Captain Fyter's name,
because he was a mixture of both your cast-off parts. Chopfyt was
interesting, as I said, but he did not prove a very agreeable
companion. He complained bitterly because I had given him but one
arm--as if it were my fault!--and he grumbled because the suit of blue
Munchkin clothes, which I got for him from a neighbor, did not fit him
perfectly."

"Ah, that was because he was wearing my old head," remarked the Tin
Soldier. "I remember that head used to be very particular about its
clothes."

"As an assistant," the old tinsmith continued, "Chopfyt was not a
success. He was awkward with tools and was always hungry. He demanded
something to eat six or eight times a day, so I wondered if I had
fitted his insides properly. Indeed, Chopfyt ate so much that little
food was left for myself; so, when he proposed, one day, to go out into
the world and seek adventures, I was delighted to be rid of him. I even
made him a tin arm to take the place of the missing one, and that
pleased him very much, so that we parted good friends."

"What became of Chopfyt after that?" the Scarecrow inquired.

"I never heard. He started off toward the east, into the plains of the
Munchkin Country, and that was the last I ever saw of him."

"It seems to me," said the Tin Woodman reflectively, "that you did
wrong in making a man out of our cast-off parts. It is evident that
Chopfyt could, with justice, claim relationship with both of us."

"Don't worry about that," advised Ku-Klip cheerfully; "it is not likely
that you will ever meet the fellow. And, if you should meet him, he
doesn't know who he is made of, for I never told him the secret of his
manufacture. Indeed, you are the only ones who know of it, and you may
keep the secret to yourselves, if you wish to."

"Never mind Chopfyt," said the Scarecrow. "Our business now is to find
poor Nimmie Amee and let her choose her tin husband. To do that, it
seems, from the information Ku-Klip has given us, we must travel to
Mount Munch."

"If that's the programme, let us start at once," suggested Woot.

So they all went outside, where they found Polychrome dancing about
among the trees and talking with the birds and laughing as merrily as
if she had not lost her Rainbow and so been separated from all her
fairy sisters.

They told her they were going to Mount Munch, and she replied:

"Very well; I am as likely to find my Rainbow there as here, and any
other place is as likely as there. It all depends on the weather. Do
you think it looks like rain?"

They shook their heads, and Polychrome laughed again and danced on
after them when they resumed their journey.




Chapter Nineteen

The Invisible Country


They were proceeding so easily and comfortably on their way to Mount
Munch that Woot said in a serious tone of voice:

"I'm afraid something is going to happen."

"Why?" asked Polychrome, dancing around the group of travelers.

"Because," said the boy, thoughtfully, "I've noticed that when we have
the least reason for getting into trouble, something is sure to go
wrong. Just now the weather is delightful; the grass is beautifully
blue and quite soft to our feet; the mountain we are seeking shows
clearly in the distance and there is no reason anything should happen
to delay us in getting there. Our troubles all seem to be over,
and--well, that's why I'm afraid," he added, with a sigh.

"Dear me!" remarked the Scarecrow, "what unhappy thoughts you have, to
be sure. This is proof that born brains cannot equal manufactured
brains, for my brains dwell only on facts and never borrow trouble.
When there is occasion for my brains to think, they think, but I would
be ashamed of my brains if they kept shooting out thoughts that were
merely fears and imaginings, such as do no good, but are likely to do
harm."

"For my part," said the Tin Woodman, "I do not think at all, but allow
my velvet heart to guide me at all times."

"The tinsmith filled my hollow head with scraps and clippings of tin,"
said the Soldier, "and he told me they would do nicely for brains, but
when I begin to think, the tin scraps rattle around and get so mixed
that I'm soon bewildered. So I try not to think. My tin heart is almost
as useless to me, for it is hard and cold, so I'm sure the red velvet
heart of my friend Nick Chopper is a better guide."

"Thoughtless people are not unusual," observed the Scarecrow, "but I
consider them more fortunate than those who have useless or wicked
thoughts and do not try to curb them. Your oil can, friend Woodman, is
filled with oil, but you only apply the oil to your joints, drop by
drop, as you need it, and do not keep spilling it where it will do no
good. Thoughts should be restrained in the same way as your oil, and
only applied when necessary, and for a good purpose. If used carefully,
thoughts are good things to have."

Polychrome laughed at him, for the Rainbow's Daughter knew more about
thoughts than the Scarecrow did. But the others were solemn, feeling
they had been rebuked, and tramped on in silence.

Suddenly Woot, who was in the lead, looked around and found that all
his comrades had mysteriously disappeared. But where could they have
gone to? The broad plain was all about him and there were neither trees
nor bushes that could hide even a rabbit, nor any hole for one to fall
into. Yet there he stood, alone.

Surprise had caused him to halt, and with a thoughtful and puzzled
expression on his face he looked down at his feet. It startled him anew
to discover that he had no feet. He reached out his hands, but he could
not see them. He could feel his hands and arms and body; he stamped his
feet on the grass and knew they were there, but in some strange way
they had become invisible.

While Woot stood, wondering, a crash of metal sounded in his ears and
he heard two heavy bodies tumble to the earth just beside him.

"Good gracious!" exclaimed the voice of the Tin Woodman.

"Mercy me!" cried the voice of the Tin Soldier.

"Why didn't you look where you were going?" asked the Tin Woodman
reproachfully.

"I did, but I couldn't see you," said the Tin Soldier. "Something has
happened to my tin eyes. I can't see you, even now, nor can I see
anyone else!"

"It's the same way with me," admitted the Tin Woodman.

Woot couldn't see either of them, although he heard them plainly, and
just then something smashed against him unexpectedly and knocked him
over; but it was only the straw-stuffed body of the Scarecrow that fell
upon him and while he could not see the Scarecrow he managed to push
him off and rose to his feet just as Polychrome whirled against him and
made him tumble again.

Sitting upon the ground, the boy asked:

"Can you see us, Poly?"

"No, indeed," answered the Rainbow's Daughter; "we've all become
invisible."

"How did it happen, do you suppose?" inquired the Scarecrow, lying
where he had fallen.

"We have met with no enemy," answered Poly-chrome, "so it must be that
this part of the country has the magic quality of making people
invisible--even fairies falling under the charm. We can see the grass,
and the flowers, and the stretch of plain before us, and we can still
see Mount Munch in the distance; but we cannot see ourselves or one
another."

"Well, what are we to do about it?" demanded Woot.

"I think this magic affects only a small part of the plain," replied
Polychrome; "perhaps there is only a streak of the country where an
enchantment makes people become invisible. So, if we get together and
hold hands, we can travel toward Mount Munch until the enchanted streak
is passed."

"All right," said Woot, jumping up, "give me your hand, Polychrome.
Where are you?"

"Here," she answered. "Whistle, Woot, and keep whistling until I come
to you."

So Woot whistled, and presently Polychrome found him and grasped his
hand.

"Someone must help me up," said the Scarecrow, lying near them; so they
found the straw man and sat him upon his feet, after which he held fast
to Polychrome's other hand.

Nick Chopper and the Tin Soldier had managed to scramble up without
assistance, but it was awkward for them and the Tin Woodman said:

"I don't seem to stand straight, somehow. But my joints all work, so I
guess I can walk."

Guided by his voice, they reached his side, where Woot grasped his tin
fingers so they might keep together.

The Tin Soldier was standing near by and the Scarecrow soon touched him
and took hold of his arm.

"I hope you're not wobbly," said the straw man, "for if two of us walk
unsteadily we will be sure to fall."

"I'm not wobbly," the Tin Soldier assured him, "but I'm certain that
one of my legs is shorter than the other. I can't see it, to tell
what's gone wrong, but I'll limp on with the rest of you until we are
out of this enchanted territory."

They now formed a line, holding hands, and turning their faces toward
Mount Munch resumed their journey. They had not gone far, however, when
a terrible growl saluted their ears. The sound seemed to come from a
place just in front of them, so they halted abruptly and remained
silent, listening with all their ears.

"I smell straw!" cried a hoarse, harsh voice, with more growls and
snarls. "I smell straw, and I'm a Hip-po-gy-raf who loves straw and
eats all he can find. I want to eat this straw! Where is it? Where is
it?"

The Scarecrow, hearing this, trembled but kept silent. All the others
were silent, too, hoping that the invisible beast would be unable to
find them. But the creature sniffed the odor of the straw and drew
nearer and nearer to them until he reached the Tin Woodman, on one end
of the line. It was a big beast and it smelled of the Tin Woodman and
grated two rows of enormous teeth against the Emperor's tin body.

"Bah! that's not straw," said the harsh voice, and the beast advanced
along the line to Woot.

"Meat! Pooh, you're no good! I can't eat meat," grumbled the beast, and
passed on to Polychrome.

"Sweetmeats and perfume--cobwebs and dew! Nothing to eat in a fairy
like you," said the creature.

Now, the Scarecrow was next to Polychrome in the line, and he realized
if the beast devoured his straw he would be helpless for a long time,
because the last farmhouse was far behind them and only grass covered
the vast expanse of plain. So in his fright he let go of Polychrome's
hand and put the hand of the Tin Soldier in that of the Rainbow's
Daughter. Then he slipped back of the line and went to the other end,
where he silently seized the Tin Woodman's hand.

Meantime, the beast had smelled the Tin Soldier and found he was the
last of the line.

"That's funny!" growled the Hip-po-gy-raf; "I can smell straw, but I
can't find it. Well, it's here, somewhere, and I must hunt around until
I do find it, for I'm hungry."

His voice was now at the left of them, so they started on, hoping to
avoid him, and traveled as fast as they could in the direction of Mount
Munch.

"I don't like this invisible country," said Woot with a shudder. "We
can't tell how many dreadful, invisible beasts are roaming around us,
or what danger we'll come to next."

"Quit thinking about danger, please," said the Scarecrow, warningly.

"Why?" asked the boy.

"If you think of some dreadful thing, it's liable to happen, but if you
don't think of it, and no one else thinks of it, it just can't happen.
Do you see?"

"No," answered Woot. "I won't be able to see much of anything until we
escape from this enchantment."

But they got out of the invisible strip of country as suddenly as they
had entered it, and the instant they got out they stopped short, for
just before them was a deep ditch, running at right angles as far as
their eyes could see and stopping all further progress toward Mount
Munch.

"It's not so very wide," said Woot, "but I'm sure none of us can jump
across it."

Polychrome began to laugh, and the Scarecrow said: "What's the matter?"

"Look at the tin men!" she said, with another burst of merry laughter.

Woot and the Scarecrow looked, and the tin men looked at themselves.

"It was the collision," said the Tin Woodman regretfully. "I knew
something was wrong with me, and now I can see that my side is dented
in so that I lean over toward the left. It was the Soldier's fault; he
shouldn't have been so careless."

"It is your fault that my right leg is bent, making it shorter than the
other, so that I limp badly," retorted the Soldier. "You shouldn't have
stood where I was walking."

"You shouldn't have walked where I was standing," replied the Tin
Woodman.

It was almost a quarrel, so Polychrome said soothingly:

"Never mind, friends; as soon as we have time I am sure we can
straighten the Soldier's leg and get the dent out of the Woodman's
body. The Scarecrow needs patting into shape, too, for he had a bad
tumble, but our first task is to get over this ditch."

"Yes, the ditch is the most important thing, just now," added Woot.

They were standing in a row, looking hard at the unexpected barrier,
when a fierce growl from behind them made them all turn quickly. Out of
the invisible country marched a huge beast with a thick, leathery skin
and a surprisingly long neck. The head on the top of this neck was
broad and flat and the eyes and mouth were very big and the nose and
ears very small. When the head was drawn down toward the beast's
shoulders, the neck was all wrinkles, but the head could shoot up very
high indeed, if the creature wished it to.

"Dear me!" exclaimed the Scarecrow, "this must be the Hip-po-gy-raf."

"Quite right," said the beast; "and you're the straw which I'm to eat
for my dinner. Oh, how I love straw! I hope you don't resent my
affectionate appetite?"

With its four great legs it advanced straight toward the Scarecrow, but
the Tin Woodman and the Tin Soldier both sprang in front of their
friend and flourished their weapons.

"Keep off!" said the Tin Woodman, warningly, "or I'll chop you with my
axe."

"Keep off!" said the Tin Soldier, "or I'll cut you with my sword."

"Would you really do that?" asked the Hip-po-gy-raf, in a disappointed
voice.

"We would," they both replied, and the Tin Woodman added: "The
Scarecrow is our friend, and he would be useless without his straw
stuffing. So, as we are comrades, faithful and true, we will defend our
friend's stuffing against all enemies."

The Hip-po-gy-raf sat down and looked at them sorrowfully.

"When one has made up his mind to have a meal of delicious straw, and
then finds he can't have it, it is certainly hard luck," he said. "And
what good is the straw man to you, or to himself, when the ditch keeps
you from going any further?"

"Well, we can go back again," suggested Woot.

"True," said the Hip-po; "and if you do, you'll be as disappointed as I
am. That's some comfort, anyhow."

The travelers looked at the beast, and then they looked across the
ditch at the level plain beyond. On the other side the grass had grown
tall, and the sun had dried it, so there was a fine crop of hay that
only needed to be cut and stacked.

"Why don't you cross over and eat hay?" the boy asked the beast.

"I'm not fond of hay," replied the Hip-po-gy-raf; "straw is much more
delicious, to my notion, and it's more scarce in this neighborhood,
too. Also I must confess that I can't get across the ditch, for my body
is too heavy and clumsy for me to jump the distance. I can stretch my
neck across, though, and you will notice that I've nibbled the hay on
the farther edge--not because I liked it, but because one must eat, and
if one can't get the sort of food he desires, he must take what is
offered or go hungry."

"Ah, I see you are a philosopher," remarked the Scarecrow.

"No, I'm just a Hip-po-gy-raf," was the reply.

Polychrome was not afraid of the big beast. She danced close to him and
said:

"If you can stretch your neck across the ditch, why not help us over?
We can sit on your big head, one at a time, and then you can lift us
across."

"Yes; I can, it is true," answered the Hip-po; "but I refuse to do it.
Unless--" he added, and stopped short.

"Unless what?" asked Polychrome.

"Unless you first allow me to eat the straw with which the Scarecrow is
stuffed."

"No," said the Rainbow's Daughter, "that is too high a price to pay.
Our friend's straw is nice and fresh, for he was restuffed only a
little while ago."

"I know," agreed the Hip-po-gy-raf. "That's why I want it. If it was
old, musty straw, I wouldn't care for it."

"Please lift us across," pleaded Polychrome.

"No," replied the beast; "since you refuse my generous offer, I can be
as stubborn as you are."

After that they were all silent for a time, but then the Scarecrow said
bravely:

"Friends, let us agree to the beast's terms. Give him my straw, and
carry the rest of me with you across the ditch. Once on the other side,
the Tin Soldier can cut some of the hay with his sharp sword, and you
can stuff me with that material until we reach a place where there is
straw. It is true I have been stuffed with straw all my life and it
will be somewhat humiliating to be filled with common hay, but I am
willing to sacrifice my pride in a good cause. Moreover, to abandon our
errand and so deprive the great Emperor of the Winkies--or this noble
Soldier--of his bride, would be equally humiliating, if not more so."

"You're a very honest and clever man!" exclaimed the Hip-po-gy-raf,
admiringly. "When I have eaten your head, perhaps I also will become
clever."

"You're not to eat my head, you know," returned the Scarecrow hastily.
"My head isn't stuffed with straw and I cannot part with it. When one
loses his head he loses his brains."

"Very well, then; you may keep your head," said the beast.

The Scarecrow's companions thanked him warmly for his loyal sacrifice
to their mutual good, and then he laid down and permitted them to pull
the straw from his body. As fast as they did this, the Hip-po-gy-raf
ate up the straw, and when all was consumed Polychrome made a neat
bundle of the clothes and boots and gloves and hat and said she would
carry them, while Woot tucked the Scarecrow's head under his arm and
promised to guard its safety.

"Now, then," said the Tin Woodman, "keep your promise, Beast, and lift
us over the ditch."

"M-m-m-mum, but that was a fine dinner!" said the Hip-po, smacking his
thick lips in satisfaction, "and I'm as good as my word. Sit on my
head, one at a time, and I'll land you safely on the other side."

He approached close to the edge of the ditch and squatted down.
Polychrome climbed over his big body and sat herself lightly upon the
flat head, holding the bundle of the Scarecrow's raiment in her hand.
Slowly the elastic neck stretched out until it reached the far side of
the ditch, when the beast lowered his head and permitted the beautiful
fairy to leap to the ground.

Woot made the queer journey next, and then the Tin Soldier and the Tin
Woodman went over, and all were well pleased to have overcome this
serious barrier to their progress.

"Now, Soldier, cut the hay," said the Scarecrow's head, which was still
held by Woot the Wanderer.

"I'd like to, but I can't stoop over, with my bent leg, without
falling," replied Captain Fyter.

"What can we do about that leg, anyhow?" asked Woot, appealing to
Polychrome.

She danced around in a circle several times without replying, and the
boy feared she had not heard him; but the Rainbow's Daughter was merely
thinking upon the problem, and presently she paused beside the Tin
Soldier and said:

"I've been taught a little fairy magic, but I've never before been
asked to mend tin legs with it, so I'm not sure I can help you. It all
depends on the good will of my unseen fairy guardians, so I'll try, and
if I fail, you will be no worse off than you are now."

She danced around the circle again, and then laid both hands upon the
twisted tin leg and sang in her sweet voice:

  "Fairy Powers, come to my aid!
  This bent leg of tin is made;
  Make it straight and strong and true,
  And I'll render thanks to you."


"Ah!" murmured Captain Fyter in a glad voice, as she withdrew her hands
and danced away, and they saw he was standing straight as ever, because
his leg was as shapely and strong as it had been before his accident.

The Tin Woodman had watched Polychrome with much interest, and he now
said:

"Please take the dent out of my side, Poly, for I am more crippled than
was the Soldier."

So the Rainbow's Daughter touched his side lightly and sang:

  "Here's a dent by accident;
  Such a thing was never meant.
  Fairy Powers, so wondrous great,
  Make our dear Tin Woodman straight!"


"Good!" cried the Emperor, again standing erect and strutting around to
show his fine figure. "Your fairy magic may not be able to accomplish
all things, sweet Polychrome, but it works splendidly on tin. Thank you
very much."

"The hay--the hay!" pleaded the Scarecrow's head.

"Oh, yes; the hay," said Woot. "What are you waiting for, Captain
Fyter?"

At once the Tin Soldier set to work cutting hay with his sword and in a
few minutes there was quite enough with which to stuff the Scarecrow's
body. Woot and Polychrome did this and it was no easy task because the
hay packed together more than straw and as they had little experience
in such work their job, when completed, left the Scarecrow's arms and
legs rather bunchy. Also there was a hump on his back which made Woot
laugh and say it reminded him of a camel, but it was the best they
could do and when the head was fastened on to the body they asked the
Scarecrow how he felt.

"A little heavy, and not quite natural," he cheerfully replied; "but
I'll get along somehow until we reach a straw-stack. Don't laugh at me,
please, because I'm a little ashamed of myself and I don't want to
regret a good action."

They started at once in the direction of Mount Munch, and as the
Scarecrow proved very clumsy in his movements, Woot took one of his
arms and the Tin Woodman the other and so helped their friend to walk
in a straight line.

And the Rainbow's Daughter, as before, danced ahead of them and behind
them and all around them, and they never minded her odd ways, because
to them she was like a ray of sunshine.




Chapter Twenty

Over Night


The Land of the Munchkins is full of surprises, as our travelers had
already learned, and although Mount Munch was constantly growing larger
as they advanced toward it, they knew it was still a long way off and
were not certain, by any means, that they had escaped all danger or
encountered their last adventure.

The plain was broad, and as far as the eye could see, there seemed to
be a level stretch of country between them and the mountain, but toward
evening they came upon a hollow, in which stood a tiny blue Munchkin
dwelling with a garden around it and fields of grain filling in all the
rest of the hollow.

They did not discover this place until they came close to the edge of
it, and they were astonished at the sight that greeted them because
they had imagined that this part of the plain had no inhabitants.

"It's a very small house," Woot declared. "I wonder who lives there?"

"The way to find out is to knock on the door and ask," replied the Tin
Woodman. "Perhaps it is the home of Nimmie Amee."

"Is she a dwarf?" asked the boy.

"No, indeed; Nimmie Amee is a full sized woman."

"Then I'm sure she couldn't live in that little house," said Woot.

"Let's go down," suggested the Scarecrow. "I'm almost sure I can see a
straw-stack in the back yard."

They descended the hollow, which was rather steep at the sides, and
soon came to the house, which was indeed rather small. Woot knocked
upon a door that was not much higher than his waist, but got no reply.
He knocked again, but not a sound was heard.

"Smoke is coming out of the chimney," announced Polychrome, who was
dancing lightly through the garden, where cabbages and beets and
turnips and the like were growing finely.

"Then someone surely lives here," said Woot, and knocked again.

Now a window at the side of the house opened and a queer head appeared.
It was white and hairy and had a long snout and little round eyes. The
ears were hidden by a blue sunbonnet tied under the chin.

"Oh; it's a pig!" exclaimed Woot.

"Pardon me; I am Mrs. Squealina Swyne, wife of Professor Grunter Swyne,
and this is our home," said the one in the window. "What do you want?"

"What sort of a Professor is your husband?" inquired the Tin Woodman
curiously.

"He is Professor of Cabbage Culture and Corn Perfection. He is very
famous in his own family, and would be the wonder of the world if he
went abroad," said Mrs. Swyne in a voice that was half proud and half
irritable. "I must also inform you intruders that the Professor is a
dangerous individual, for he files his teeth every morning until they
are sharp as needles. If you are butchers, you'd better run away and
avoid trouble."

"We are not butchers," the Tin Woodman assured her.

"Then what are you doing with that axe?  And why has the other tin man
a sword?"

"They are the only weapons we have to defend our friends from their
enemies," explained the Emperor of the Winkies, and Woot added:

"Do not be afraid of us, Mrs. Swyne, for we are harmless travelers. The
tin men and the Scarecrow never eat anything and Polychrome feasts only
on dewdrops. As for me, I'm rather hungry, but there is plenty of food
in your garden to satisfy me."

Professor Swyne now joined his wife at the window, looking rather
scared in spite of the boy's assuring speech. He wore a blue Munchkin
hat, with pointed crown and broad brim, and big spectacles covered his
eyes. He peeked around from behind his wife and after looking hard at
the strangers, he said:

"My wisdom assures me that you are merely travelers, as you say, and
not butchers. Butchers have reason to be afraid of me, but you are
safe. We cannot invite you in, for you are too big for our house, but
the boy who eats is welcome to all the carrots and turnips he wants.
Make yourselves at home in the garden and stay all night, if you like;
but in the morning you must go away, for we are quiet people and do not
care for company."

"May I have some of your straw?" asked the Scarecrow.

"Help yourself," replied Professor Swyne.

"For pigs, they're quite respectable," remarked Woot, as they all went
toward the straw-stack.

"I'm glad they didn't invite us in," said Captain Fyter. "I hope I'm
not too particular about my associates, but I draw the line at pigs."

The Scarecrow was glad to be rid of his hay, for during the long walk
it had sagged down and made him fat and squatty and more bumpy than at
first.

"I'm not specially proud," he said, "but I love a manly figure, such as
only straw stuffing can create. I've not felt like myself since that
hungry Hip-po ate my last straw."

Polychrome and Woot set to work removing the hay and then they selected
the finest straw, crisp and golden, and with it stuffed the Scarecrow
anew. He certainly looked better after the operation, and he was so
pleased at being reformed that he tried to dance a little jig, and
almost succeeded.

"I shall sleep under the straw-stack tonight," Woot decided, after he
had eaten some of the vegetables from the garden, and in fact he slept
very well, with the two tin men and the Scarecrow sitting silently
beside him and Polychrome away somewhere in the moonlight dancing her
fairy dances.

At daybreak the Tin Woodman and the Tin Soldier took occasion to polish
their bodies and oil their joints, for both were exceedingly careful of
their personal appearance. They had forgotten the quarrel due to their
accidental bumping of one another in the invisible country, and being
now good friends the Tin Woodman polished the Tin Soldier's back for
him and then the Tin Soldier polished the Tin Woodman's back.

For breakfast the Wanderer ate crisp lettuce and radishes, and the
Rainbow's Daughter, who had now returned to her friends, sipped the
dewdrops that had formed on the petals of the wild-flowers.

As they passed the little house to renew their journey, Woot called out:

"Good-bye, Mr. and Mrs. Swyne!"

The window opened and the two pigs looked out.

"A pleasant journey," said the Professor.

"Have you any children?" asked the Scarecrow, who was a great friend of
children.

"We have nine," answered the Professor; "but they do not live with us,
for when they were tiny piglets the Wizard of Oz came here and offered
to care for them and to educate them. So we let him have our nine tiny
piglets, for he's a good Wizard and can be relied upon to keep his
promises."

"I know the Nine Tiny Piglets," said the Tin Woodman.

"So do I," said the Scarecrow. "They still live in the Emerald City,
and the Wizard takes good care of them and teaches them to do all sorts
of tricks."

"Did they ever grow up?" inquired Mrs. Squealina Swyne, in an anxious
voice.

"No," answered the Scarecrow; "like all other children in the Land of
Oz, they will always remain children, and in the case of the tiny
piglets that is a good thing, because they would not be nearly so cute
and cunning if they were bigger."

"But are they happy?" asked Mrs. Swyne.

"Everyone in the Emerald City is happy," said the Tin Woodman. "They
can't help it."

Then the travelers said good-bye, and climbed the side of the basin
that was toward Mount Munch.




Chapter Twenty-One

Polychrome's Magic


On this morning, which ought to be the last of this important journey,
our friends started away as bright and cheery as could be, and Woot
whistled a merry tune so that Polychrome could dance to the music.

On reaching the top of the hill, the plain spread out before them in
all its beauty of blue grasses and wildflowers, and Mount Munch seemed
much nearer than it had the previous evening. They trudged on at a
brisk pace, and by noon the mountain was so close that they could
admire its appearance. Its slopes were partly clothed with pretty
evergreens, and its foot-hills were tufted with a slender waving
bluegrass that had a tassel on the end of every blade. And, for the
first time, they perceived, near the foot of the mountain, a charming
house, not of great size but neatly painted and with many flowers
surrounding it and vines climbing over the doors and windows.

It was toward this solitary house that our travelers now directed their
steps, thinking to inquire of the people who lived there where Nimmie
Amee might be found.

There were no paths, but the way was quite open and clear, and they
were drawing near to the dwelling when Woot the Wanderer, who was then
in the lead of the little party, halted with such an abrupt jerk that
he stumbled over backward and lay flat on his back in the meadow. The
Scarecrow stopped to look at the boy.

"Why did you do that?" he asked in surprise.

Woot sat up and gazed around him in amazement.

"I--I don't know!" he replied.

The two tin men, arm in arm, started to pass them when both halted and
tumbled, with a great clatter, into a heap beside Woot. Polychrome,
laughing at the absurd sight, came dancing up and she, also, came to a
sudden stop, but managed to save herself from falling.

Everyone of them was much astonished, and the Scarecrow said with a
puzzled look:

"I don't see anything."

"Nor I," said Woot; "but something hit me, just the same."

"Some invisible person struck me a heavy blow," declared the Tin
Woodman, struggling to separate himself from the Tin Soldier, whose
legs and arms were mixed with his own.

"I'm not sure it was a person," said Polychrome, looking more grave
than usual. "It seems to me that I merely ran into some hard substance
which barred my way. In order to make sure of this, let me try another
place."

She ran back a way and then with much caution advanced in a different
place, but when she reached a position on a line with the others she
halted, her arms outstretched before her.

"I can feel something hard--something smooth as glass," she said, "but
I'm sure it is not glass."

"Let me try," suggested Woot, getting up; but when he tried to go
forward, he discovered the same barrier that Polychrome had encountered.

"No," he said, "it isn't glass. But what is it?"

"Air," replied a small voice beside him. "Solid air; that's all."

They all looked downward and found a sky-blue rabbit had stuck his head
out of a burrow in the ground. The rabbit's eyes were a deeper blue
than his fur, and the pretty creature seemed friendly and unafraid.

"Air!" exclaimed Woot, staring in astonishment into the rabbit's blue
eyes; "whoever heard of air so solid that one cannot push it aside?"

"You can't push this air aside," declared the rabbit, "for it was made
hard by powerful sorcery, and it forms a wall that is intended to keep
people from getting to that house yonder."

"Oh; it's a wall, is it?" said the Tin Woodman.

"Yes, it is really a wall," answered the rabbit, "and it is fully six
feet thick."

"How high is it?" inquired Captain Fyter, the Tin Soldier.

"Oh, ever so high; perhaps a mile," said the rabbit.

"Couldn't we go around it?" asked Woot.

"Of course, for the wall is a circle," explained the rabbit. "In the
center of the circle stands the house, so you may walk around the Wall
of Solid Air, but you can't get to the house."

"Who put the air wall around the house?" was the Scarecrow's question.

"Nimmie Amee did that."

"Nimmie Amee!" they all exclaimed in surprise.

"Yes," answered the rabbit. "She used to live with an old Witch, who
was suddenly destroyed, and when Nimmie Amee ran away from the Witch's
house, she took with her just one magic formula--pure sorcery it
was--which enabled her to build this air wall around her house--the
house yonder. It was quite a clever idea, I think, for it doesn't mar
the beauty of the landscape, solid air being invisible, and yet it
keeps all strangers away from the house."

"Does Nimmie Amee live there now?" asked the Tin Woodman anxiously.

"Yes, indeed," said the rabbit.

"And does she weep and wail from morning till night?" continued the
Emperor.

"No; she seems quite happy," asserted the rabbit.

The Tin Woodman seemed quite disappointed to hear this report of his
old sweetheart, but the Scarecrow reassured his friend, saying:

"Never mind, your Majesty; however happy Nimmie Amee is now, I'm sure
she will be much happier as Empress of the Winkies."

"Perhaps," said Captain Fyter, somewhat stiffly, "she will be still
more happy to become the bride of a Tin Soldier."

"She shall choose between us, as we have agreed," the Tin Woodman
promised; "but how shall we get to the poor girl?"

Polychrome, although dancing lightly back and forth, had listened to
every word of the conversation. Now she came forward and sat herself
down just in front of the Blue Rabbit, her many-hued draperies giving
her the appearance of some beautiful flower. The rabbit didn't back
away an inch. Instead, he gazed at the Rainbow's Daughter admiringly.

"Does your burrow go underneath this Wall of Air?" asked Polychrome.

"To be sure," answered the Blue Rabbit; "I dug it that way so I could
roam in these broad fields, by going out one way, or eat the cabbages
in Nimmie Amee's garden by leaving my burrow at the other end. I don't
think Nimmie Amee ought to mind the little I take from her garden, or
the hole I've made under her magic wall. A rabbit may go and come as he
pleases, but no one who is bigger than I am could get through my
burrow."

"Will you allow us to pass through it, if we are able to?" inquired
Polychrome.

"Yes, indeed," answered the Blue Rabbit. "I'm no especial friend of
Nimmie Amee, for once she threw stones at me, just because I was
nibbling some lettuce, and only yesterday she yelled 'Shoo!' at me,
which made me nervous. You're welcome to use my burrow in any way you
choose."

"But this is all nonsense!" declared Woot the Wanderer. "We are every
one too big to crawl through a rabbit's burrow."

"We are too big now," agreed the Scarecrow, "but you must remember that
Polychrome is a fairy, and fairies have many magic powers."

Woot's face brightened as he turned to the lovely Daughter of the
Rainbow.

"Could you make us all as small as that rabbit?" he asked eagerly.

"I can try," answered Polychrome, with a smile. And presently she did
it--so easily that Woot was not the only one astonished. As the now
tiny people grouped themselves before the rabbit's burrow the hole
appeared to them like the entrance to a tunnel, which indeed it was.

"I'll go first," said wee Polychrome, who had made herself grow as
small as the others, and into the tunnel she danced without hesitation.
A tiny Scarecrow went next and then the two funny little tin men.

"Walk in; it's your turn," said the Blue Rabbit to Woot the Wanderer.
"I'm coming after, to see how you get along. This will be a regular
surprise party to Nimmie Amee."

So Woot entered the hole and felt his way along its smooth sides in the
dark until he finally saw the glimmer of daylight ahead and knew the
journey was almost over. Had he remained his natural size, the distance
could have been covered in a few steps, but to a thumb-high Woot it was
quite a promenade. When he emerged from the burrow he found himself but
a short distance from the house, in the center of the vegetable garden,
where the leaves of rhubarb waving above his head seemed like trees.
Outside the hole, and waiting for him, he found all his friends.

"So far, so good!" remarked the Scarecrow cheerfully.

"Yes; so far, but no farther," returned the Tin Woodman in a plaintive
and disturbed tone of voice. "I am now close to Nimmie Amee, whom I
have come ever so far to seek, but I cannot ask the girl to marry such
a little man as I am now."

"I'm no bigger than a toy soldier!" said Captain Fyter, sorrowfully.
"Unless Polychrome can make us big again, there is little use in our
visiting Nimmie Amee at all, for I'm sure she wouldn't care for a
husband she might carelessly step on and ruin."

Polychrome laughed merrily.

"If I make you big, you can't get out of here again," said she, "and if
you remain little Nimmie Amee will laugh at you. So make your choice."

"I think we'd better go back," said Woot seriously

"No," said the Tin Woodman, stoutly, "I have decided that it's my duty
to make Nimmie Amee happy, in case she wishes to marry me."

"So have I," announced Captain Fyter. "A good soldier never shrinks
from doing his duty."

"As for that," said the Scarecrow, "tin doesn't shrink any to speak of,
under any circumstances. But Woot and I intend to stick to our
comrades, whatever they decide to do, so we will ask Polychrome to make
us as big as we were before."

Polychrome agreed to this request and in half a minute all of them,
including herself, had been enlarged again to their natural sizes. They
then thanked the Blue Rabbit for his kind assistance, and at once
approached the house of Nimme Amee.




Chapter Twenty-Two

Nimmie Amee


We may be sure that at this moment our friends were all anxious to see
the end of the adventure that had caused them so many trials and
troubles. Perhaps the Tin Woodman's heart did not beat any faster,
because it was made of red velvet and stuffed with sawdust, and the Tin
Soldier's heart was made of tin and reposed in his tin bosom without a
hint of emotion. However, there is little doubt that they both knew
that a critical moment in their lives had arrived, and that Nimmie
Amee's decision was destined to influence the future of one or the
other.

As they assumed their natural sizes and the rhubarb leaves that had
before towered above their heads now barely covered their feet, they
looked around the garden and found that no person was visible save
themselves. No sound of activity came from the house, either, but they
walked to the front door, which had a little porch built before it, and
there the two tinmen stood side by side while both knocked upon the
door with their tin knuckles.

As no one seemed eager to answer the summons they knocked again; and
then again. Finally they heard a stir from within and someone coughed.

"Who's there?" called a girl's voice.

"It's I!" cried the tin twins, together.

"How did you get there?" asked the voice.

They hesitated how to reply, so Woot answered for them:

"By means of magic."

"Oh," said the unseen girl. "Are you friends, or foes?"

"Friends!" they all exclaimed.

Then they heard footsteps approach the door, which slowly opened and
revealed a very pretty Munchkin girl standing in the doorway.

"Nimmie Amee!" cried the tin twins.

"That's my name," replied the girl, looking at them in cold surprise.
"But who can you be?"

"Don't you know me, Nimmie?" said the Tin Woodman. "I'm your old
sweetheart, Nick Chopper!"

"Don't you know me, my dear?" said the Tin Soldier. "I'm your old
sweetheart, Captain Fyter!"

Nimmie Amee smiled at them both. Then she looked beyond them at the
rest of the party and smiled again. However, she seemed more amused
than pleased.

"Come in," she said, leading the way inside. "Even sweethearts are
forgotten after a time, but you and your friends are welcome."

The room they now entered was cosy and comfortable, being neatly
furnished and well swept and dusted. But they found someone there
besides Nimmie Amee. A man dressed in the attractive Munchkin costume
was lazily reclining in an easy chair, and he sat up and turned his
eves on the visitors with a cold and indifferent stare that was almost
insolent. He did not even rise from his seat to greet the strangers,
but after glaring at them he looked away with a scowl, as if they were
of too little importance to interest him.

The tin men returned this man's stare with interest, but they did not
look away from him because neither of them seemed able to take his eyes
off this Munchkin, who was remarkable in having one tin arm quite like
their own tin arms.

"Seems to me," said Captain Fyter, in a voice that sounded harsh and
indignant, "that you, sir, are a vile impostor!"

"Gently--gently!" cautioned the Scarecrow; "don't be rude to strangers,
Captain."

"Rude?" shouted the Tin Soldier, now very much provoked; "why, he's a
scoundrel--a thief! The villain is wearing my own head!"

"Yes," added the Tin Woodman, "and he's wearing my right arm! I can
recognize it by the two warts on the little finger."

"Good gracious!" exclaimed Woot. "Then this must be the man whom old
Ku-Klip patched together and named Chopfyt."

The man now turned toward them, still scowling.

"Yes, that is my name," he said in a voice like a growl, "and it is
absurd for you tin creatures, or for anyone else, to claim my head, or
arm, or any part of me, for they are my personal property."

"You? You're a Nobody!" shouted Captain Fyter.

"You're just a mix-up," declared the Emperor.

"Now, now, gentlemen," interrupted Nimmie Amee, "I must ask you to be
more respectful to poor Chopfyt. For, being my guests, it is not polite
for you to insult my husband."

"Your husband!" the tin twins exclaimed in dismay.

"Yes," said she. "I married Chopfyt a long time ago, because my other
two sweethearts had deserted me."

This reproof embarrassed both Nick Chopper and Captain Fyter. They
looked down, shamefaced, for a moment, and then the Tin Woodman
explained in an earnest voice:

"I rusted."

"So did I," said the Tin Soldier.

"I could not know that, of course," asserted Nimmie Amee. "All I knew
was that neither of you came to marry me, as you had promised to do.
But men are not scarce in the Land of Oz. After I came here to live, I
met Mr. Chopfyt, and he was the  more interesting because he reminded
me strongly of both of you, as you were before you became tin. He even
had a tin arm, and that reminded me of you the more.

"No wonder!" remarked the Scarecrow.

"But, listen, Nimmie Amee!" said the astonished Woot; "he really is
both of them, for he is made of their cast-off parts."

"Oh, you're quite wrong," declared Polychrome, laughing, for she was
greatly enjoying the confusion of the others. "The tin men are still
themselves, as they will tell you, and so Chopfyt must be someone else."

They looked at her bewildered, for the facts in the case were too
puzzling to be grasped at once.

"It is all the fault of old Ku-Klip," muttered the Tin Woodman. "He had
no right to use our castoff parts to make another man with."

"It seems he did it, however," said Nimmie Amee calmly, "and I married
him because he resembled you both. I won't say he is a husband to be
proud of, because he has a mixed nature and isn't always an agreeable
companion. There are times when I have to chide him gently, both with
my tongue and with my broomstick. But he is my husband, and I must make
the best of him."

"If you don't like him," suggested the Tin Woodman, "Captain Fyter and
I can chop him up with our axe and sword, and each take such parts of
the fellow as belong to him. Then we are willing for you to select one
of us as your husband."

"That is a good idea," approved Captain Fyter, drawing his sword.

"No," said Nimmie Amee; "I think I'll keep the husband I now have. He
is now trained to draw the water and carry in the wood and hoe the
cabbages and weed the flower-beds and dust the furniture and perform
many tasks of a like character. A new husband would have to be
scolded--and gently chided--until he learns my ways. So I think it will
be better to keep my Chopfyt, and I see no reason why you should object
to him. You two gentlemen threw him away when you became tin, because
you had no further use for him, so you cannot justly claim him now. I
advise you to go back to your own homes and forget me, as I have
forgotten you."

"Good advice!" laughed Polychrome, dancing.

"Are you happy?" asked the Tin Soldier.

"Of course I am," said Nimmie Amee; "I'm the mistress of all I
survey--the queen of my little domain."

"Wouldn't you like to be the Empress of the Winkies?" asked the Tin
Woodman.

"Mercy, no," she answered. "That would be a lot of bother. I don't care
for society, or pomp, or posing. All I ask is to be left alone and not
to be annoyed by visitors."

The Scarecrow nudged Woot the Wanderer.

"That sounds to me like a hint," he said.

"Looks as if we'd had our journey for nothing," remarked Woot, who was
a little ashamed and disappointed because he had proposed the journey.

"I am glad, however," said the Tin Woodman, "that I have found Nimmie
Amee, and discovered that she is already married and happy. It will
relieve me of any further anxiety concerning her."

"For my part," said the Tin Soldier, "I am not sorry to be free. The
only thing that really annoys me is finding my head upon Chopfyt's
body."

"As for that, I'm pretty sure it is my body, or a part of it, anyway,"
remarked the Emperor of the Winkies. "But never mind, friend Soldier;
let us be willing to donate our cast-off members to insure the
happiness of Nimmie Amee, and be thankful it is not our fate to hoe
cabbages and draw water--and be chided--in the place of this creature
Chopfyt."

"Yes," agreed the Soldier, "we have much to be thankful for."

Polychrome, who had wandered outside, now poked her pretty head through
an open window and exclaimed in a pleased voice:

"It's getting cloudy. Perhaps it is going to rain!"




Chapter Twenty-Three

Through the Tunnel


It didn't rain just then, although the clouds in the sky grew thicker
and more threatening. Polychrome hoped for a thunder-storm, followed by
her Rainbow, but the two tin men did not relish the idea of getting
wet. They even preferred to remain in Nimmie Amee's house, although
they felt they were not welcome there, rather than go out and face the
coming storm. But the Scarecrow, who was a very thoughtful person, said
to his friends:

"If we remain here until after the storm, and Polychrome goes away on
her Rainbow, then we will be prisoners inside the Wall of Solid Air; so
it seems best to start upon our return journey at once. If I get wet,
my straw stuffing will be ruined, and if you two tin gentlemen get wet,
you may perhaps rust again, and become useless. But even that is better
than to stay here. Once we are free of the barrier, we have Woot the
Wanderer to help us, and he can oil your joints and restuff my body, if
it becomes necessary, for the boy is made of meat, which neither rusts
nor gets soggy or moldy."

"Come along, then!" cried Polychrome from the window, and the others,
realizing the wisdom of the Scarecrow's speech, took leave of Nimmie
Amee, who was glad to be rid of them, and said good-bye to her husband,
who merely scowled and made no answer, and then they hurried from the
house.

"Your old parts are not very polite, I must say," remarked the
Scarecrow, when they were in the garden.

"No," said Woot, "Chopfyt is a regular grouch. He might have wished us
a pleasant journey, at the very least."

"I beg you not to hold us responsible for that creature's actions,"
pleaded the Tin Woodman. "We are through with Chopfyt and shall have
nothing further to do with him."

Polychrome danced ahead of the party and led them straight to the
burrow of the Blue Rabbit, which they might have had some difficulty in
finding without her. There she lost no time in making them all small
again. The Blue Rabbit was busy nibbling cabbage leaves in Nimmie
Amee's garden, so they did not ask his permission but at once entered
the burrow.

Even now the raindrops were beginning to fall, but it was quite dry
inside the tunnel and by the time they had reached the other end,
outside the circular Wall of Solid Air, the storm was at its height and
the rain was coming down in torrents.

"Let us wait here," proposed Polychrome, peering out of the hole and
then quickly retreating. "The Rainbow won't appear until after the
storm and I can make you big again in a jiffy, before I join my sisters
on our bow."

"That's a good plan," said the Scarecrow approvingly. "It will save me
from getting soaked and soggy."

"It will save me from rusting," said the Tin Soldier.

"It will enable me to remain highly polished," said the Tin Woodman.

"Oh, as for that, I myself prefer not to get my pretty clothes wet,"
laughed the Rainbow's daughter.

"But while we wait I will bid you all adieu. I must also thank you for
saving me from that dreadful Giantess, Mrs. Yoop. You have been good
and patient comrades and I have enjoyed our adventures together, but I
am never so happy as when on my dear Rainbow."

"Will your father scold you for getting left on the earth?" asked Woot.

"I suppose so," said Polychrome gaily; "I'm always getting scolded for
my mad pranks, as they are called. My sisters are so sweet and lovely
and proper that they never dance off our Rainbow, and so they never
have any adventures. Adventures to me are good fun, only I never like
to stay too long on earth, because I really don't belong here. I shall
tell my Father the Rainbow that I'll try not to be so careless again,
and he will forgive me because in our sky mansions there is always joy
and happiness."

They were indeed sorry to part with their dainty and beautiful
companion and assured her of their devotion if they ever chanced to
meet again. She shook hands with the Scarecrow and the Tin Men and
kissed Woot the Wanderer lightly upon his forehead.

And then the rain suddenly ceased, and as the tiny people left the
burrow of the Blue Rabbit, a glorious big Rainbow appeared in the sky
and the end of its arch slowly descended and touched the ground just
where they stood.

Woot was so busy watching a score of lovely maidens--sisters of
Polychrome--who were leaning over the edge of the bow, and another
score who danced gaily amid the radiance of the splendid hues, that he
did not notice he was growing big again. But now Polychrome joined her
sisters on the Rainbow and the huge arch lifted and slowly melted away
as the sun burst from the clouds and sent its own white beams dancing
over the meadows.

"Why, she's gone!" exclaimed the boy, and turned to see his companions
still waving their hands in token of adieu to the vanished Polychrome.




Chapter Twenty-Four

The Curtain Falls


Well, the rest of the story is quickly told, for the return Journey of
our adventurers was without any important incident. The Scarecrow was
so afraid of meeting the Hip-po-gy-raf, and having his straw eaten
again, that he urged his comrades to select another route to the
Emerald City, and they willingly consented, so that the Invisible
Country was wholly avoided.

Of course, when they reached the Emerald City their first duty was to
visit Ozma's palace, where they were royally entertained. The Tin
Soldier and Woot the Wanderer were welcomed as warmly as any strangers
might be who had been the traveling companions of Ozma's dear old
friends, the Scarecrow and the Tin Woodman.

At the banquet table that evening they related the manner in which they
had discovered Nimmie Amee, and told how they had found her happily
married to Chopfyt, whose relationship to Nick Chopper and Captain
Fyter was so bewildering that they asked Ozma's advice what to do about
it.

"You need not consider Chopfyt at all," replied the beautiful girl
Ruler of Oz. "If Nimmie Amee is content with that misfit man for a
husband, we have not even just cause to blame Ku-Klip for gluing him
together."

"I think it was a very good idea," added little Dorothy, "for if
Ku-Klip hadn't used up your castoff parts, they would have been wasted.
It's wicked to be wasteful, isn't it?"

"Well, anyhow," said Woot the Wanderer, "Chopfyt, being kept a prisoner
by his wife, is too far away from anyone to bother either of you tin
men in any way. If you hadn't gone where he is and discovered him, you
would never have worried about him."

"What do you care, anyhow," Betsy Bobbin asked the Tin Woodman, "so
long as Nimmie Amee is satisfied?"

"And just to think," remarked Tiny Trot, "that any girl would rather
live with a mixture like Chopfyt, on far-away Mount Munch, than to be
the Empress of the Winkies!"

"It is her own choice," said the Tin Woodman contentedly; "and, after
all, I'm not sure the Winkies would care to have an Empress."

It puzzled Ozma, for a time, to decide what to do with the Tin Soldier.
If he went with the Tin Woodman to the Emperor's castle, she felt that
the two tin men might not be able to live together in harmony, and
moreover the Emperor would not be so distinguished if he had a double
constantly beside him. So she asked Captain Fyter if he was willing to
serve her as a soldier, and he promptly declared that nothing would
please him more. After he had been in her service for some time, Ozma
sent him into the Gillikin Country, with instructions to keep order
among the wild people who inhabit some parts of that unknown country of
Oz.

As for Woot, being a Wanderer by profession, he was allowed to wander
wherever he desired, and Ozma promised to keep watch over his future
journeys and to protect the boy as well as she was able, in case he
ever got into more trouble.

All this having been happily arranged, the Tin Woodman returned to his
tin castle, and his chosen comrade, the Scarecrow, accompanied him on
the way. The two friends were sure to pass many pleasant hours together
in talking over their recent adventures, for as they neither ate nor
slept they found their greatest amusement in conversation.




THE WONDERFUL WIZARD OF OZ




1.  The Cyclone


Dorothy lived in the midst of the great Kansas prairies, with Uncle
Henry, who was a farmer, and Aunt Em, who was the farmer's wife.  Their
house was small, for the lumber to build it had to be carried by wagon
many miles.  There were four walls, a floor and a roof, which made one
room; and this room contained a rusty looking cookstove, a cupboard for
the dishes, a table, three or four chairs, and the beds.  Uncle Henry
and Aunt Em had a big bed in one corner, and Dorothy a little bed in
another corner.  There was no garret at all, and no cellar--except a
small hole dug in the ground, called a cyclone cellar, where the family
could go in case one of those great whirlwinds arose, mighty enough to
crush any building in its path.  It was reached by a trap door in the
middle of the floor, from which a ladder led down into the small, dark
hole.

When Dorothy stood in the doorway and looked around, she could see
nothing but the great gray prairie on every side.  Not a tree nor a
house broke the broad sweep of flat country that reached to the edge of
the sky in all directions.  The sun had baked the plowed land into a
gray mass, with little cracks running through it.  Even the grass was
not green, for the sun had burned the tops of the long blades until
they were the same gray color to be seen everywhere.  Once the house
had been painted, but the sun blistered the paint and the rains washed
it away, and now the house was as dull and gray as everything else.

When Aunt Em came there to live she was a young, pretty wife.  The sun
and wind had changed her, too.  They had taken the sparkle from her
eyes and left them a sober gray; they had taken the red from her cheeks
and lips, and they were gray also.  She was thin and gaunt, and never
smiled now.  When Dorothy, who was an orphan, first came to her, Aunt
Em had been so startled by the child's laughter that she would scream
and press her hand upon her heart whenever Dorothy's merry voice
reached her ears; and she still looked at the little girl with wonder
that she could find anything to laugh at.

Uncle Henry never laughed.  He worked hard from morning till night and
did not know what joy was.  He was gray also, from his long beard to
his rough boots, and he looked stern and solemn, and rarely spoke.

It was Toto that made Dorothy laugh, and saved her from growing as gray
as her other surroundings.  Toto was not gray; he was a little black
dog, with long silky hair and small black eyes that twinkled merrily on
either side of his funny, wee nose.  Toto played all day long, and
Dorothy played with him, and loved him dearly.

Today, however, they were not playing.  Uncle Henry sat upon the
doorstep and looked anxiously at the sky, which was even grayer than
usual.  Dorothy stood in the door with Toto in her arms, and looked at
the sky too.  Aunt Em was washing the dishes.

From the far north they heard a low wail of the wind, and Uncle Henry
and Dorothy could see where the long grass bowed in waves before the
coming storm.  There now came a sharp whistling in the air from the
south, and as they turned their eyes that way they saw ripples in the
grass coming from that direction also.

Suddenly Uncle Henry stood up.

"There's a cyclone coming, Em," he called to his wife.  "I'll go look
after the stock."  Then he ran toward the sheds where the cows and
horses were kept.

Aunt Em dropped her work and came to the door.  One glance told her of
the danger close at hand.

"Quick, Dorothy!" she screamed.  "Run for the cellar!"

Toto jumped out of Dorothy's arms and hid under the bed, and the girl
started to get him.  Aunt Em, badly frightened, threw open the trap
door in the floor and climbed down the ladder into the small, dark
hole.  Dorothy caught Toto at last and started to follow her aunt.
When she was halfway across the room there came a great shriek from the
wind, and the house shook so hard that she lost her footing and sat
down suddenly upon the floor.

Then a strange thing happened.

The house whirled around two or three times and rose slowly through the
air.  Dorothy felt as if she were going up in a balloon.

The north and south winds met where the house stood, and made it the
exact center of the cyclone.  In the middle of a cyclone the air is
generally still, but the great pressure of the wind on every side of
the house raised it up higher and higher, until it was at the very top
of the cyclone; and there it remained and was carried miles and miles
away as easily as you could carry a feather.

It was very dark, and the wind howled horribly around her, but Dorothy
found she was riding quite easily.  After the first few whirls around,
and one other time when the house tipped badly, she felt as if she were
being rocked gently, like a baby in a cradle.

Toto did not like it.  He ran about the room, now here, now there,
barking loudly; but Dorothy sat quite still on the floor and waited to
see what would happen.

Once Toto got too near the open trap door, and fell in; and at first
the little girl thought she had lost him.  But soon she saw one of his
ears sticking up through the hole, for the strong pressure of the air
was keeping him up so that he could not fall.  She crept to the hole,
caught Toto by the ear, and dragged him into the room again, afterward
closing the trap door so that no more accidents could happen.

Hour after hour passed away, and slowly Dorothy got over her fright;
but she felt quite lonely, and the wind shrieked so loudly all about
her that she nearly became deaf.  At first she had wondered if she
would be dashed to pieces when the house fell again; but as the hours
passed and nothing terrible happened, she stopped worrying and resolved
to wait calmly and see what the future would bring.  At last she
crawled over the swaying floor to her bed, and lay down upon it; and
Toto followed and lay down beside her.

In spite of the swaying of the house and the wailing of the wind,
Dorothy soon closed her eyes and fell fast asleep.




2.  The Council with the Munchkins


She was awakened by a shock, so sudden and severe that if Dorothy had
not been lying on the soft bed she might have been hurt.  As it was,
the jar made her catch her breath and wonder what had happened; and
Toto put his cold little nose into her face and whined dismally.
Dorothy sat up and noticed that the house was not moving; nor was it
dark, for the bright sunshine came in at the window, flooding the
little room.  She sprang from her bed and with Toto at her heels ran
and opened the door.

The little girl gave a cry of amazement and looked about her, her eyes
growing bigger and bigger at the wonderful sights she saw.

The cyclone had set the house down very gently--for a cyclone--in the
midst of a country of marvelous beauty.  There were lovely patches of
greensward all about, with stately trees bearing rich and luscious
fruits.  Banks of gorgeous flowers were on every hand, and birds with
rare and brilliant plumage sang and fluttered in the trees and bushes.
A little way off was a small brook, rushing and sparkling along between
green banks, and murmuring in a voice very grateful to a little girl
who had lived so long on the dry, gray prairies.

While she stood looking eagerly at the strange and beautiful sights,
she noticed coming toward her a group of the queerest people she had
ever seen.  They were not as big as the grown folk she had always been
used to; but neither were they very small.  In fact, they seemed about
as tall as Dorothy, who was a well-grown child for her age, although
they were, so far as looks go, many years older.

Three were men and one a woman, and all were oddly dressed.  They wore
round hats that rose to a small point a foot above their heads, with
little bells around the brims that tinkled sweetly as they moved.  The
hats of the men were blue; the little woman's hat was white, and she
wore a white gown that hung in pleats from her shoulders.  Over it were
sprinkled little stars that glistened in the sun like diamonds.  The
men were dressed in blue, of the same shade as their hats, and wore
well-polished boots with a deep roll of blue at the tops.  The men,
Dorothy thought, were about as old as Uncle Henry, for two of them had
beards.  But the little woman was doubtless much older.  Her face was
covered with wrinkles, her hair was nearly white, and she walked rather
stiffly.

When these people drew near the house where Dorothy was standing in the
doorway, they paused and whispered among themselves, as if afraid to
come farther.  But the little old woman walked up to Dorothy, made a
low bow and said, in a sweet voice:

"You are welcome, most noble Sorceress, to the land of the Munchkins.
We are so grateful to you for having killed the Wicked Witch of the
East, and for setting our people free from bondage."

Dorothy listened to this speech with wonder.  What could the little
woman possibly mean by calling her a sorceress, and saying she had
killed the Wicked Witch of the East?  Dorothy was an innocent, harmless
little girl, who had been carried by a cyclone many miles from home;
and she had never killed anything in all her life.

But the little woman evidently expected her to answer; so Dorothy said,
with hesitation, "You are very kind, but there must be some mistake.  I
have not killed anything."

"Your house did, anyway," replied the little old woman, with a laugh,
"and that is the same thing.  See!" she continued, pointing to the
corner of the house.  "There are her two feet, still sticking out from
under a block of wood."

Dorothy looked, and gave a little cry of fright.  There, indeed, just
under the corner of the great beam the house rested on, two feet were
sticking out, shod in silver shoes with pointed toes.

"Oh, dear!  Oh, dear!" cried Dorothy, clasping her hands together in
dismay.  "The house must have fallen on her.  Whatever shall we do?"

"There is nothing to be done," said the little woman calmly.

"But who was she?" asked Dorothy.

"She was the Wicked Witch of the East, as I said," answered the little
woman.  "She has held all the Munchkins in bondage for many years,
making them slave for her night and day.  Now they are all set free,
and are grateful to you for the favor."

"Who are the Munchkins?" inquired Dorothy.

"They are the people who live in this land of the East
 where the Wicked Witch ruled."

"Are you a Munchkin?" asked Dorothy.

"No, but I am their friend, although I live in the land of the North.
When they saw the Witch of the East was dead the Munchkins sent a swift
messenger to me, and I came at once.  I am the Witch of the North."

"Oh, gracious!" cried Dorothy.  "Are you a real witch?"

"Yes, indeed," answered the little woman.  "But I am a good witch, and
the people love me.  I am not as powerful as the Wicked Witch was who
ruled here, or I should have set the people free myself."

"But I thought all witches were wicked," said the girl, who was half
frightened at facing a real witch.  "Oh, no, that is a great mistake.
There were only four witches in all the Land of Oz, and two of them,
those who live in the North and the South, are good witches.  I know
this is true, for I am one of them myself, and cannot be mistaken.
Those who dwelt in the East and the West were, indeed, wicked witches;
but now that you have killed one of them, there is but one Wicked Witch
in all the Land of Oz--the one who lives in the West."

"But," said Dorothy, after a moment's thought, "Aunt Em has told me
that the witches were all dead--years and years ago."

"Who is Aunt Em?" inquired the little old woman.

"She is my aunt who lives in Kansas, where I came from."

The Witch of the North seemed to think for a time, with her head bowed
and her eyes upon the ground.  Then she looked up and said, "I do not
know where Kansas is, for I have never heard that country mentioned
before.  But tell me, is it a civilized country?"

"Oh, yes," replied Dorothy.

"Then that accounts for it.  In the civilized countries I believe there
are no witches left, nor wizards, nor sorceresses, nor magicians.  But,
you see, the Land of Oz has never been civilized, for we are cut off
from all the rest of the world.  Therefore we still have witches and
wizards amongst us."

"Who are the wizards?" asked Dorothy.

"Oz himself is the Great Wizard," answered the Witch, sinking her voice
to a whisper.  "He is more powerful than all the rest of us together.
He lives in the City of Emeralds."

Dorothy was going to ask another question, but just then the Munchkins,
who had been standing silently by, gave a loud shout and pointed to the
corner of the house where the Wicked Witch had been lying.

"What is it?" asked the little old woman, and looked, and began to
laugh.  The feet of the dead Witch had disappeared entirely, and
nothing was left but the silver shoes.

"She was so old," explained the Witch of the North, "that she dried up
quickly in the sun.  That is the end of her.  But the silver shoes are
yours, and you shall have them to wear." She reached down and picked up
the shoes, and after shaking the dust out of them handed them to
Dorothy.

"The Witch of the East was proud of those silver shoes," said one of
the Munchkins, "and there is some charm connected with them; but what
it is we never knew."

Dorothy carried the shoes into the house and placed them on the table.
Then she came out again to the Munchkins and said:

"I am anxious to get back to my aunt and uncle, for I am sure they will
worry about me.  Can you help me find my way?"

The Munchkins and the Witch first looked at one another, and then at
Dorothy, and then shook their heads.

"At the East, not far from here," said one, "there is a great desert,
and none could live to cross it."

"It is the same at the South," said another, "for I have been there and
seen it.  The South is the country of the Quadlings."

"I am told," said the third man, "that it is the same at the West.  And
that country, where the Winkies live, is ruled by the Wicked Witch of
the West, who would make you her slave if you passed her way."

"The North is my home," said the old lady, "and at its edge is the same
great desert that surrounds this Land of Oz.  I'm afraid, my dear, you
will have to live with us."

Dorothy began to sob at this, for she felt lonely among all these
strange people.  Her tears seemed to grieve the kind-hearted Munchkins,
for they immediately took out their handkerchiefs and began to weep
also.  As for the little old woman, she took off her cap and balanced
the point on the end of her nose, while she counted "One, two, three"
in a solemn voice.  At once the cap changed to a slate, on which was
written in big, white chalk marks:


 "LET DOROTHY GO TO THE CITY OF EMERALDS"


The little old woman took the slate from her nose, and having read the
words on it, asked, "Is your name Dorothy, my dear?"

"Yes," answered the child, looking up and drying her tears.

"Then you must go to the City of Emeralds.  Perhaps Oz will help you."

"Where is this city?" asked Dorothy.

"It is exactly in the center of the country, and is ruled by Oz, the
Great Wizard I told you of."

"Is he a good man?" inquired the girl anxiously.

"He is a good Wizard.  Whether he is a man or not I cannot tell, for I
have never seen him."

"How can I get there?" asked Dorothy.

"You must walk.  It is a long journey, through a country that is
sometimes pleasant and sometimes dark and terrible.  However, I will
use all the magic arts I know of to keep you from harm."

"Won't you go with me?" pleaded the girl, who had begun to look upon
the little old woman as her only friend.

"No, I cannot do that," she replied, "but I will give you my kiss, and
no one will dare injure a person who has been kissed by the Witch of
the North."

She came close to Dorothy and kissed her gently on the forehead.  Where
her lips touched the girl they left a round, shining mark, as Dorothy
found out soon after.

"The road to the City of Emeralds is paved with yellow brick," said the
Witch, "so you cannot miss it.  When you get to Oz do not be afraid of
him, but tell your story and ask him to help you.  Good-bye, my dear."

The three Munchkins bowed low to her and wished her a pleasant journey,
after which they walked away through the trees.  The Witch gave Dorothy
a friendly little nod, whirled around on her left heel three times, and
straightway disappeared, much to the surprise of little Toto, who
barked after her loudly enough when she had gone, because he had been
afraid even to growl while she stood by.

But Dorothy, knowing her to be a witch, had expected her to disappear
in just that way, and was not surprised in the least.




3.  How Dorothy Saved the Scarecrow


When Dorothy was left alone she began to feel hungry.  So she went to
the cupboard and cut herself some bread, which she spread with butter.
She gave some to Toto, and taking a pail from the shelf she carried it
down to the little brook and filled it with clear, sparkling water.
Toto ran over to the trees and began to bark at the birds sitting
there.  Dorothy went to get him, and saw such delicious fruit hanging
from the branches that she gathered some of it, finding it just what
she wanted to help out her breakfast.

Then she went back to the house, and having helped herself and Toto to
a good drink of the cool, clear water, she set about making ready for
the journey to the City of Emeralds.

Dorothy had only one other dress, but that happened to be clean and was
hanging on a peg beside her bed.  It was gingham, with checks of white
and blue; and although the blue was somewhat faded with many washings,
it was still a pretty frock.  The girl washed herself carefully,
dressed herself in the clean gingham, and tied her pink sunbonnet on
her head.  She took a little basket and filled it with bread from the
cupboard, laying a white cloth over the top.  Then she looked down at
her feet and noticed how old and worn her shoes were.

"They surely will never do for a long journey, Toto," she said.  And
Toto looked up into her face with his little black eyes and wagged his
tail to show he knew what she meant.

At that moment Dorothy saw lying on the table the silver shoes that had
belonged to the Witch of the East.

"I wonder if they will fit me," she said to Toto.  "They would be just
the thing to take a long walk in, for they could not wear out."

She took off her old leather shoes and tried on the silver ones, which
fitted her as well as if they had been made for her.

Finally she picked up her basket.

"Come along, Toto," she said.  "We will go to the Emerald City and ask
the Great Oz how to get back to Kansas again."

She closed the door, locked it, and put the key carefully in the pocket
of her dress.  And so, with Toto trotting along soberly behind her, she
started on her journey.

There were several roads near by, but it did not take her long to find
the one paved with yellow bricks.  Within a short time she was walking
briskly toward the Emerald City, her silver shoes tinkling merrily on
the hard, yellow road-bed.  The sun shone bright and the birds sang
sweetly, and Dorothy did not feel nearly so bad as you might think a
little girl would who had been suddenly whisked away from her own
country and set down in the midst of a strange land.

She was surprised, as she walked along, to see how pretty the country
was about her.  There were neat fences at the sides of the road,
painted a dainty blue color, and beyond them were fields of grain and
vegetables in abundance.  Evidently the Munchkins were good farmers and
able to raise large crops.  Once in a while she would pass a house, and
the people came out to look at her and bow low as she went by; for
everyone knew she had been the means of destroying the Wicked Witch and
setting them free from bondage.  The houses of the Munchkins were
odd-looking dwellings, for each was round, with a big dome for a roof.
All were painted blue, for in this country of the East blue was the
favorite color.

Toward evening, when Dorothy was tired with her long walk and began to
wonder where she should pass the night, she came to a house rather
larger than the rest.  On the green lawn before it many men and women
were dancing.  Five little fiddlers played as loudly as possible, and
the people were laughing and singing, while a big table near by was
loaded with delicious fruits and nuts, pies and cakes, and many other
good things to eat.

The people greeted Dorothy kindly, and invited her to supper and to
pass the night with them; for this was the home of one of the richest
Munchkins in the land, and his friends were gathered with him to
celebrate their freedom from the bondage of the Wicked Witch.

Dorothy ate a hearty supper and was waited upon by the rich Munchkin
himself, whose name was Boq.  Then she sat upon a settee and watched
the people dance.

When Boq saw her silver shoes he said, "You must be a great sorceress."

"Why?" asked the girl.

"Because you wear silver shoes and have killed the Wicked Witch.
Besides, you have white in your frock, and only witches and sorceresses
wear white."

"My dress is blue and white checked," said Dorothy, smoothing out the
wrinkles in it.

"It is kind of you to wear that," said Boq.  "Blue is the color of the
Munchkins, and white is the witch color.  So we know you are a friendly
witch."

Dorothy did not know what to say to this, for all the people seemed to
think her a witch, and she knew very well she was only an ordinary
little girl who had come by the chance of a cyclone into a strange land.

When she had tired watching the dancing, Boq led her into the house,
where he gave her a room with a pretty bed in it.  The sheets were made
of blue cloth, and Dorothy slept soundly in them till morning, with
Toto curled up on the blue rug beside her.

She ate a hearty breakfast, and watched a wee Munchkin baby, who played
with Toto and pulled his tail and crowed and laughed in a way that
greatly amused Dorothy.  Toto was a fine curiosity to all the people,
for they had never seen a dog before.

"How far is it to the Emerald City?" the girl asked.

"I do not know," answered Boq gravely, "for I have never been there.
It is better for people to keep away from Oz, unless they have business
with him.  But it is a long way to the Emerald City, and it will take
you many days.  The country here is rich and pleasant, but you must
pass through rough and dangerous places before you reach the end of
your journey."

This worried Dorothy a little, but she knew that only the Great Oz
could help her get to Kansas again, so she bravely resolved not to turn
back.

She bade her friends good-bye, and again started along the road of
yellow brick.  When she had gone several miles she thought she would
stop to rest, and so climbed to the top of the fence beside the road
and sat down.  There was a great cornfield beyond the fence, and not
far away she saw a Scarecrow, placed high on a pole to keep the birds
from the ripe corn.

Dorothy leaned her chin upon her hand and gazed thoughtfully at the
Scarecrow.  Its head was a small sack stuffed with straw, with eyes,
nose, and mouth painted on it to represent a face.  An old, pointed
blue hat, that had belonged to some Munchkin, was perched on his head,
and the rest of the figure was a blue suit of clothes, worn and faded,
which had also been stuffed with straw.  On the feet were some old
boots with blue tops, such as every man wore in this country, and the
figure was raised above the stalks of corn by means of the pole stuck
up its back.

While Dorothy was looking earnestly into the queer, painted face of the
Scarecrow, she was surprised to see one of the eyes slowly wink at her.
She thought she must have been mistaken at first, for none of the
scarecrows in Kansas ever wink; but presently the figure nodded its
head to her in a friendly way.  Then she climbed down from the fence
and walked up to it, while Toto ran around the pole and barked.

"Good day," said the Scarecrow, in a rather husky voice.

"Did you speak?" asked the girl, in wonder.

"Certainly," answered the Scarecrow.  "How do you do?"

"I'm pretty well, thank you," replied Dorothy politely.  "How do you
do?"

"I'm not feeling well," said the Scarecrow, with a smile, "for it is
very tedious being perched up here night and day to scare away crows."

"Can't you get down?" asked Dorothy.

"No, for this pole is stuck up my back.  If you will please take away
the pole I shall be greatly obliged to you."

Dorothy reached up both arms and lifted the figure off the pole, for,
being stuffed with straw, it was quite light.

"Thank you very much," said the Scarecrow, when he had been set down on
the ground.  "I feel like a new man."

Dorothy was puzzled at this, for it sounded queer to hear a stuffed man
speak, and to see him bow and walk along beside her.

"Who are you?" asked the Scarecrow when he had stretched himself and
yawned.  "And where are you going?"

"My name is Dorothy," said the girl, "and I am going to the Emerald
City, to ask the Great Oz to send me back to Kansas."

"Where is the Emerald City?" he inquired.  "And who is Oz?"

"Why, don't you know?" she returned, in surprise.

"No, indeed.  I don't know anything.  You see, I am stuffed, so I have
no brains at all," he answered sadly.

"Oh," said Dorothy, "I'm awfully sorry for you."

"Do you think," he asked, "if I go to the Emerald City with you, that
Oz would give me some brains?"

"I cannot tell," she returned, "but you may come with me, if you like.
If Oz will not give you any brains you will be no worse off than you
are now."

"That is true," said the Scarecrow.  "You see," he continued
confidentially, "I don't mind my legs and arms and body being stuffed,
because I cannot get hurt.  If anyone treads on my toes or sticks a pin
into me, it doesn't matter, for I can't feel it.  But I do not want
people to call me a fool, and if my head stays stuffed with straw
instead of with brains, as yours is, how am I ever to know anything?"

"I understand how you feel," said the little girl, who was truly sorry
for him.  "If you will come with me I'll ask Oz to do all he can for
you."

"Thank you," he answered gratefully.

They walked back to the road.  Dorothy helped him over the fence, and
they started along the path of yellow brick for the Emerald City.

Toto did not like this addition to the party at first.  He smelled
around the stuffed man as if he suspected there might be a nest of rats
in the straw, and he often growled in an unfriendly way at the
Scarecrow.

"Don't mind Toto," said Dorothy to her new friend.  "He never bites."

"Oh, I'm not afraid," replied the Scarecrow.  "He can't hurt the straw.
Do let me carry that basket for you.  I shall not mind it, for I can't
get tired.  I'll tell you a secret," he continued, as he walked along.
"There is only one thing in the world I am afraid of."

"What is that?" asked Dorothy; "the Munchkin farmer who made you?"

"No," answered the Scarecrow; "it's a lighted match."




4.  The Road Through the Forest


After a few hours the road began to be rough, and the walking grew so
difficult that the Scarecrow often stumbled over the yellow bricks,
which were here very uneven.  Sometimes, indeed, they were broken or
missing altogether, leaving holes that Toto jumped across and Dorothy
walked around.  As for the Scarecrow, having no brains, he walked
straight ahead, and so stepped into the holes and fell at full length
on the hard bricks.  It never hurt him, however, and Dorothy would pick
him up and set him upon his feet again, while he joined her in laughing
merrily at his own mishap.

The farms were not nearly so well cared for here as they were farther
back.  There were fewer houses and fewer fruit trees, and the farther
they went the more dismal and lonesome the country became.

At noon they sat down by the roadside, near a little brook, and Dorothy
opened her basket and got out some bread.  She offered a piece to the
Scarecrow, but he refused.

"I am never hungry," he said, "and it is a lucky thing I am not, for my
mouth is only painted, and if I should cut a hole in it so I could eat,
the straw I am stuffed with would come out, and that would spoil the
shape of my head."

Dorothy saw at once that this was true, so she only nodded and went on
eating her bread.

"Tell me something about yourself and the country you came from," said
the Scarecrow, when she had finished her dinner.  So she told him all
about Kansas, and how gray everything was there, and how the cyclone
had carried her to this queer Land of Oz.

The Scarecrow listened carefully, and said, "I cannot understand why
you should wish to leave this beautiful country and go back to the dry,
gray place you call Kansas."

"That is because you have no brains" answered the girl.  "No matter how
dreary and gray our homes are, we people of flesh and blood would
rather live there than in any other country, be it ever so beautiful.
There is no place like home."

The Scarecrow sighed.

"Of course I cannot understand it," he said.  "If your heads were
stuffed with straw, like mine, you would probably all live in the
beautiful places, and then Kansas would have no people at all.  It is
fortunate for Kansas that you have brains."

"Won't you tell me a story, while we are resting?" asked the child.

The Scarecrow looked at her reproachfully, and answered:

"My life has been so short that I really know nothing whatever.  I was
only made day before yesterday.  What happened in the world before that
time is all unknown to me.  Luckily, when the farmer made my head, one
of the first things he did was to paint my ears, so that I heard what
was going on.  There was another Munchkin with him, and the first thing
I heard was the farmer saying, `How do you like those ears?'

"`They aren't straight,'" answered the other.

"`Never mind,'" said the farmer.  "`They are ears just the same,'"
which was true enough.

"`Now I'll make the eyes,'" said the farmer.  So he painted my right
eye, and as soon as it was finished I found myself looking at him and
at everything around me with a great deal of curiosity, for this was my
first glimpse of the world.

"`That's a rather pretty eye,'" remarked the Munchkin who was watching
the farmer.  "`Blue paint is just the color for eyes.'

"`I think I'll make the other a little bigger,'" said the farmer.  And
when the second eye was done I could see much better than before.  Then
he made my nose and my mouth.  But I did not speak, because at that
time I didn't know what a mouth was for.  I had the fun of watching
them make my body and my arms and legs; and when they fastened on my
head, at last, I felt very proud, for I thought I was just as good a
man as anyone.

"`This fellow will scare the crows fast enough,' said the farmer.  `He
looks just like a man.'

"`Why, he is a man,' said the other, and I quite agreed with him.  The
farmer carried me under his arm to the cornfield, and set me up on a
tall stick, where you found me.  He and his friend soon after walked
away and left me alone.

"I did not like to be deserted this way.  So I tried to walk after
them.  But my feet would not touch the ground, and I was forced to stay
on that pole.  It was a lonely life to lead, for I had nothing to think
of, having been made such a little while before.  Many crows and other
birds flew into the cornfield, but as soon as they saw me they flew
away again, thinking I was a Munchkin; and this pleased me and made me
feel that I was quite an important person.  By and by an old crow flew
near me, and after looking at me carefully he perched upon my shoulder
and said:

"`I wonder if that farmer thought to fool me in this clumsy manner.
Any crow of sense could see that you are only stuffed with straw.'
Then he hopped down at my feet and ate all the corn he wanted.  The
other birds, seeing he was not harmed by me, came to eat the corn too,
so in a short time there was a great flock of them about me.

"I felt sad at this, for it showed I was not such a good Scarecrow
after all; but the old crow comforted me, saying, `If you only had
brains in your head you would be as good a man as any of them, and a
better man than some of them.  Brains are the only things worth having
in this world, no matter whether one is a crow or a man.'

"After the crows had gone I thought this over, and decided I would try
hard to get some brains.  By good luck you came along and pulled me off
the stake, and from what you say I am sure the Great Oz will give me
brains as soon as we get to the Emerald City."

"I hope so," said Dorothy earnestly, "since you seem anxious to have
them."

"Oh, yes; I am anxious," returned the Scarecrow.  "It is such an
uncomfortable feeling to know one is a fool."

"Well," said the girl, "let us go."  And she handed the basket to the
Scarecrow.

There were no fences at all by the roadside now, and the land was rough
and untilled.  Toward evening they came to a great forest, where the
trees grew so big and close together that their branches met over the
road of yellow brick.  It was almost dark under the trees, for the
branches shut out the daylight; but the travelers did not stop, and
went on into the forest.

"If this road goes in, it must come out," said the Scarecrow, "and as
the Emerald City is at the other end of the road, we must go wherever
it leads us."

"Anyone would know that," said Dorothy.

"Certainly; that is why I know it," returned the Scarecrow.  "If it
required brains to figure it out, I never should have said it."

After an hour or so the light faded away, and they found themselves
stumbling along in the darkness.  Dorothy could not see at all, but
Toto could, for some dogs see very well in the dark; and the Scarecrow
declared he could see as well as by day.  So she took hold of his arm
and managed to get along fairly well.

"If you see any house, or any place where we can pass the night," she
said, "you must tell me; for it is very uncomfortable walking in the
dark."

Soon after the Scarecrow stopped.

"I see a little cottage at the right of us," he said, "built of logs
and branches.  Shall we go there?"

"Yes, indeed," answered the child.  "I am all tired out."

So the Scarecrow led her through the trees until they reached the
cottage, and Dorothy entered and found a bed of dried leaves in one
corner.  She lay down at once, and with Toto beside her soon fell into
a sound sleep.  The Scarecrow, who was never tired, stood up in another
corner and waited patiently until morning came.




5.  The Rescue of the Tin Woodman


When Dorothy awoke the sun was shining through the trees and Toto had
long been out chasing birds around him and squirrels.  She sat up and
looked around her. Scarecrow, still standing patiently in his corner,
waiting for her.

"We must go and search for water," she said to him.

"Why do you want water?" he asked.

"To wash my face clean after the dust of the road, and to drink, so the
dry bread will not stick in my throat."

"It must be inconvenient to be made of flesh," said the Scarecrow
thoughtfully, "for you must sleep, and eat and drink.  However, you
have brains, and it is worth a lot of bother to be able to think
properly."

They left the cottage and walked through the trees until they found a
little spring of clear water, where Dorothy drank and bathed and ate
her breakfast.  She saw there was not much bread left in the basket,
and the girl was thankful the Scarecrow did not have to eat anything,
for there was scarcely enough for herself and Toto for the day.

When she had finished her meal, and was about to go back to the road of
yellow brick, she was startled to hear a deep groan near by.

"What was that?" she asked timidly.

"I cannot imagine," replied the Scarecrow; "but we can go and see."

Just then another groan reached their ears, and the sound seemed to
come from behind them.  They turned and walked through the forest a few
steps, when Dorothy discovered something shining in a ray of sunshine
that fell between the trees.  She ran to the place and then stopped
short, with a little cry of surprise.

One of the big trees had been partly chopped through, and standing
beside it, with an uplifted axe in his hands, was a man made entirely
of tin.  His head and arms and legs were jointed upon his body, but he
stood perfectly motionless, as if he could not stir at all.

Dorothy looked at him in amazement, and so did the Scarecrow, while
Toto barked sharply and made a snap at the tin legs, which hurt his
teeth.

"Did you groan?" asked Dorothy.

"Yes," answered the tin man, "I did.  I've been groaning for more than
a year, and no one has ever heard me before or come to help me."

"What can I do for you?" she inquired softly, for she was moved by the
sad voice in which the man spoke.

"Get an oil-can and oil my joints," he answered.  "They are rusted so
badly that I cannot move them at all; if I am well oiled I shall soon
be all right again.  You will find an oil-can on a shelf in my cottage."

Dorothy at once ran back to the cottage and found the oil-can, and then
she returned and asked anxiously, "Where are your joints?"

"Oil my neck, first," replied the Tin Woodman.  So she oiled it, and as
it was quite badly rusted the Scarecrow took hold of the tin head and
moved it gently from side to side until it worked freely, and then the
man could turn it himself.

"Now oil the joints in my arms," he said.  And Dorothy oiled them and
the Scarecrow bent them carefully until they were quite free from rust
and as good as new.

The Tin Woodman gave a sigh of satisfaction and lowered his axe, which
he leaned against the tree.

"This is a great comfort," he said.  "I have been holding that axe in
the air ever since I rusted, and I'm glad to be able to put it down at
last.  Now, if you will oil the joints of my legs, I shall be all right
once more."

So they oiled his legs until he could move them freely; and he thanked
them again and again for his release, for he seemed a very polite
creature, and very grateful.

"I might have stood there always if you had not come along," he said;
"so you have certainly saved my life.  How did you happen to be here?"

"We are on our way to the Emerald City to see the Great Oz," she
answered, "and we stopped at your cottage to pass the night."

"Why do you wish to see Oz?" he asked.

"I want him to send me back to Kansas, and the Scarecrow wants him to
put a few brains into his head," she replied.

The Tin Woodman appeared to think deeply for a moment.  Then he said:

"Do you suppose Oz could give me a heart?"

"Why, I guess so," Dorothy answered.  "It would be as easy as to give
the Scarecrow brains."

"True," the Tin Woodman returned.  "So, if you will allow me to join
your party, I will also go to the Emerald City and ask Oz to help me."

"Come along," said the Scarecrow heartily, and Dorothy added that she
would be pleased to have his company.  So the Tin Woodman shouldered
his axe and they all passed through the forest until they came to the
road that was paved with yellow brick.

The Tin Woodman had asked Dorothy to put the oil-can in her basket.
"For," he said, "if I should get caught in the rain, and rust again, I
would need the oil-can badly."

It was a bit of good luck to have their new comrade join the party, for
soon after they had begun their journey again they came to a place
where the trees and branches grew so thick over the road that the
travelers could not pass.  But the Tin Woodman set to work with his axe
and chopped so well that soon he cleared a passage for the entire party.

Dorothy was thinking so earnestly as they walked along that she did not
notice when the Scarecrow stumbled into a hole and rolled over to the
side of the road.  Indeed he was obliged to call to her to help him up
again.

"Why didn't you walk around the hole?" asked the Tin Woodman.

"I don't know enough," replied the Scarecrow cheerfully.  "My head is
stuffed with straw, you know, and that is why I am going to Oz to ask
him for some brains."

"Oh, I see," said the Tin Woodman.  "But, after all, brains are not the
best things in the world."

"Have you any?" inquired the Scarecrow.

"No, my head is quite empty," answered the Woodman.  "But once I had
brains, and a heart also; so, having tried them both, I should much
rather have a heart."

"And why is that?" asked the Scarecrow.

"I will tell you my story, and then you will know."

So, while they were walking through the forest, the Tin Woodman told
the following story:

"I was born the son of a woodman who chopped down trees in the forest
and sold the wood for a living.  When I grew up, I too became a
woodchopper, and after my father died I took care of my old mother as
long as she lived.  Then I made up my mind that instead of living alone
I would marry, so that I might not become lonely.

"There was one of the Munchkin girls who was so beautiful that I soon
grew to love her with all my heart.  She, on her part, promised to
marry me as soon as I could earn enough money to build a better house
for her; so I set to work harder than ever.  But the girl lived with an
old woman who did not want her to marry anyone, for she was so lazy she
wished the girl to remain with her and do the cooking and the
housework.  So the old woman went to the Wicked Witch of the East, and
promised her two sheep and a cow if she would prevent the marriage.
Thereupon the Wicked Witch enchanted my axe, and when I was chopping
away at my best one day, for I was anxious to get the new house and my
wife as soon as possible, the axe slipped all at once and cut off my
left leg.

"This at first seemed a great misfortune, for I knew a one-legged man
could not do very well as a wood-chopper.  So I went to a tinsmith and
had him make me a new leg out of tin.  The leg worked very well, once I
was used to it.  But my action angered the Wicked Witch of the East,
for she had promised the old woman I should not marry the pretty
Munchkin girl.  When I began chopping again, my axe slipped and cut off
my right leg.  Again I went to the tinsmith, and again he made me a leg
out of tin.  After this the enchanted axe cut off my arms, one after
the other; but, nothing daunted, I had them replaced with tin ones.
The Wicked Witch then made the axe slip and cut off my head, and at
first I thought that was the end of me.  But the tinsmith happened to
come along, and he made me a new head out of tin.

"I thought I had beaten the Wicked Witch then, and I worked harder than
ever; but I little knew how cruel my enemy could be.  She thought of a
new way to kill my love for the beautiful Munchkin maiden, and made my
axe slip again, so that it cut right through my body, splitting me into
two halves.  Once more the tinsmith came to my help and made me a body
of tin, fastening my tin arms and legs and head to it, by means of
joints, so that I could move around as well as ever.  But, alas!  I had
now no heart, so that I lost all my love for the Munchkin girl, and did
not care whether I married her or not.  I suppose she is still living
with the old woman, waiting for me to come after her.

"My body shone so brightly in the sun that I felt very proud of it and
it did not matter now if my axe slipped, for it could not cut me.
There was only one danger--that my joints would rust; but I kept an
oil-can in my cottage and took care to oil myself whenever I needed it.
However, there came a day when I forgot to do this, and, being caught
in a rainstorm, before I thought of the danger my joints had rusted,
and I was left to stand in the woods until you came to help me.  It was
a terrible thing to undergo, but during the year I stood there I had
time to think that the greatest loss I had known was the loss of my
heart.  While I was in love I was the happiest man on earth; but no one
can love who has not a heart, and so I am resolved to ask Oz to give me
one.  If he does, I will go back to the Munchkin maiden and marry her."

Both Dorothy and the Scarecrow had been greatly interested in the story
of the Tin Woodman, and now they knew why he was so anxious to get a
new heart.

"All the same," said the Scarecrow, "I shall ask for brains instead of
a heart; for a fool would not know what to do with a heart if he had
one."

"I shall take the heart," returned the Tin Woodman; "for brains do not
make one happy, and happiness is the best thing in the world."

Dorothy did not say anything, for she was puzzled to know which of her
two friends was right, and she decided if she could only get back to
Kansas and Aunt Em, it did not matter so much whether the Woodman had
no brains and the Scarecrow no heart, or each got what he wanted.

What worried her most was that the bread was nearly gone, and another
meal for herself and Toto would empty the basket.  To be sure neither
the Woodman nor the Scarecrow ever ate anything, but she was not made
of tin nor straw, and could not live unless she was fed.




6.  The Cowardly Lion


All this time Dorothy and her companions had been walking through the
thick woods.  The road was still paved with yellow brick, but these
were much covered by dried branches and dead leaves from the trees, and
the walking was not at all good.

There were few birds in this part of the forest, for birds love the
open country where there is plenty of sunshine.  But now and then there
came a deep growl from some wild animal hidden among the trees.  These
sounds made the little girl's heart beat fast, for she did not know
what made them; but Toto knew, and he walked close to Dorothy's side,
and did not even bark in return.

"How long will it be," the child asked of the Tin Woodman, "before we
are out of the forest?"

"I cannot tell," was the answer, "for I have never been to the Emerald
City.  But my father went there once, when I was a boy, and he said it
was a long journey through a dangerous country, although nearer to the
city where Oz dwells the country is beautiful.  But I am not afraid so
long as I have my oil-can, and nothing can hurt the Scarecrow, while
you bear upon your forehead the mark of the Good Witch's kiss, and that
will protect you from harm."

"But Toto!" said the girl anxiously.  "What will protect him?"

"We must protect him ourselves if he is in danger," replied the Tin
Woodman.

Just as he spoke there came from the forest a terrible roar, and the
next moment a great Lion bounded into the road.  With one blow of his
paw he sent the Scarecrow spinning over and over to the edge of the
road, and then he struck at the Tin Woodman with his sharp claws.  But,
to the Lion's surprise, he could make no impression on the tin,
although the Woodman fell over in the road and lay still.

Little Toto, now that he had an enemy to face, ran barking toward the
Lion, and the great beast had opened his mouth to bite the dog, when
Dorothy, fearing Toto would be killed, and heedless of danger, rushed
forward and slapped the Lion upon his nose as hard as she could, while
she cried out:

"Don't you dare to bite Toto!  You ought to be ashamed of yourself, a
big beast like you, to bite a poor little dog!"

"I didn't bite him," said the Lion, as he rubbed his nose with his paw
where Dorothy had hit it.

"No, but you tried to," she retorted.  "You are nothing but a big
coward."

"I know it," said the Lion, hanging his head in shame.  "I've always
known it.  But how can I help it?"

"I don't know, I'm sure.  To think of your striking a stuffed man, like
the poor Scarecrow!"

"Is he stuffed?" asked the Lion in surprise, as he watched her pick up
the Scarecrow and set him upon his feet, while she patted him into
shape again.

"Of course he's stuffed," replied Dorothy, who was still angry.

"That's why he went over so easily," remarked the Lion.  "It astonished
me to see him whirl around so.  Is the other one stuffed also?"

"No," said Dorothy, "he's made of tin."  And she helped the Woodman up
again.

"That's why he nearly blunted my claws," said the Lion.  "When they
scratched against the tin it made a cold shiver run down my back.  What
is that little animal you are so tender of?"

"He is my dog, Toto," answered Dorothy.

"Is he made of tin, or stuffed?" asked the Lion.

"Neither.  He's a--a--a meat dog," said the girl.

"Oh!  He's a curious animal and seems remarkably small, now that I look
at him.  No one would think of biting such a little thing, except a
coward like me," continued the Lion sadly.

"What makes you a coward?" asked Dorothy, looking at the great beast in
wonder, for he was as big as a small horse.

"It's a mystery," replied the Lion.  "I suppose I was born that way.
All the other animals in the forest naturally expect me to be brave,
for the Lion is everywhere thought to be the King of Beasts.  I learned
that if I roared very loudly every living thing was frightened and got
out of my way.  Whenever I've met a man I've been awfully scared; but I
just roared at him, and he has always run away as fast as he could go.
If the elephants and the tigers and the bears had ever tried to fight
me, I should have run myself--I'm such a coward; but just as soon as
they hear me roar they all try to get away from me, and of course I let
them go."

"But that isn't right.  The King of Beasts shouldn't be a coward," said
the Scarecrow.

"I know it," returned the Lion, wiping a tear from his eye with the tip
of his tail.  "It is my great sorrow, and makes my life very unhappy.
But whenever there is danger, my heart begins to beat fast."

"Perhaps you have heart disease," said the Tin Woodman.

"It may be," said the Lion.

"If you have," continued the Tin Woodman, "you ought to be glad, for it
proves you have a heart.  For my part, I have no heart; so I cannot
have heart disease."

"Perhaps," said the Lion thoughtfully, "if I had no heart I should not
be a coward."

"Have you brains?" asked the Scarecrow.

"I suppose so.  I've never looked to see," replied the Lion.

"I am going to the Great Oz to ask him to give me some," remarked the
Scarecrow, "for my head is stuffed with straw."

"And I am going to ask him to give me a heart," said the Woodman.

"And I am going to ask him to send Toto and me back to Kansas," added
Dorothy.

"Do you think Oz could give me courage?" asked the Cowardly Lion.

"Just as easily as he could give me brains," said the Scarecrow.

"Or give me a heart," said the Tin Woodman.

"Or send me back to Kansas," said Dorothy.

"Then, if you don't mind, I'll go with you," said the Lion, "for my
life is simply unbearable without a bit of courage."

"You will be very welcome," answered Dorothy, "for you will help to
keep away the other wild beasts.  It seems to me they must be more
cowardly than you are if they allow you to scare them so easily."

"They really are," said the Lion, "but that doesn't make me any braver,
and as long as I know myself to be a coward I shall be unhappy."

So once more the little company set off upon the journey, the Lion
walking with stately strides at Dorothy's side.  Toto did not approve
this new comrade at first, for he could not forget how nearly he had
been crushed between the Lion's great jaws.  But after a time he became
more at ease, and presently Toto and the Cowardly Lion had grown to be
good friends.

During the rest of that day there was no other adventure to mar the
peace of their journey.  Once, indeed, the Tin Woodman stepped upon a
beetle that was crawling along the road, and killed the poor little
thing.  This made the Tin Woodman very unhappy, for he was always
careful not to hurt any living creature; and as he walked along he wept
several tears of sorrow and regret.  These tears ran slowly down his
face and over the hinges of his jaw, and there they rusted.  When
Dorothy presently asked him a question the Tin Woodman could not open
his mouth, for his jaws were tightly rusted together.  He became
greatly frightened at this and made many motions to Dorothy to relieve
him, but she could not understand.  The Lion was also puzzled to know
what was wrong.  But the Scarecrow seized the oil-can from Dorothy's
basket and oiled the Woodman's jaws, so that after a few moments he
could talk as well as before.

"This will serve me a lesson," said he, "to look where I step.  For if
I should kill another bug or beetle I should surely cry again, and
crying rusts my jaws so that I cannot speak."

Thereafter he walked very carefully, with his eyes on the road, and
when he saw a tiny ant toiling by he would step over it, so as not to
harm it.  The Tin Woodman knew very well he had no heart, and therefore
he took great care never to be cruel or unkind to anything.

"You people with hearts," he said, "have something to guide you, and
need never do wrong; but I have no heart, and so I must be very
careful.  When Oz gives me a heart of course I needn't mind so much."




7.  The Journey to the Great Oz


They were obliged to camp out that night under a large tree in the
forest, for there were no houses near.  The tree made a good, thick
covering to protect them from the dew, and the Tin Woodman chopped a
great pile of wood with his axe and Dorothy built a splendid fire that
warmed her and made her feel less lonely.  She and Toto ate the last of
their bread, and now she did not know what they would do for breakfast.

"If you wish," said the Lion, "I will go into the forest and kill a
deer for you.  You can roast it by the fire, since your tastes are so
peculiar that you prefer cooked food, and then you will have a very
good breakfast."

"Don't!  Please don't," begged the Tin Woodman.  "I should certainly
weep if you killed a poor deer, and then my jaws would rust again."

But the Lion went away into the forest and found his own supper, and no
one ever knew what it was, for he didn't mention it.  And the Scarecrow
found a tree full of nuts and filled Dorothy's basket with them, so
that she would not be hungry for a long time.  She thought this was
very kind and thoughtful of the Scarecrow, but she laughed heartily at
the awkward way in which the poor creature picked up the nuts.  His
padded hands were so clumsy and the nuts were so small that he dropped
almost as many as he put in the basket.  But the Scarecrow did not mind
how long it took him to fill the basket, for it enabled him to keep
away from the fire, as he feared a spark might get into his straw and
burn him up.  So he kept a good distance away from the flames, and only
came near to cover Dorothy with dry leaves when she lay down to sleep.
These kept her very snug and warm, and she slept soundly until morning.

When it was daylight, the girl bathed her face in a little rippling
brook, and soon after they all started toward the Emerald City.

This was to be an eventful day for the travelers.  They had hardly been
walking an hour when they saw before them a great ditch that crossed
the road and divided the forest as far as they could see on either
side.  It was a very wide ditch, and when they crept up to the edge and
looked into it they could see it was also very deep, and there were
many big, jagged rocks at the bottom.  The sides were so steep that
none of them could climb down, and for a moment it seemed that their
journey must end.

"What shall we do?" asked Dorothy despairingly.

"I haven't the faintest idea," said the Tin Woodman, and the Lion shook
his shaggy mane and looked thoughtful.

But the Scarecrow said, "We cannot fly, that is certain.  Neither can
we climb down into this great ditch.  Therefore, if we cannot jump over
it, we must stop where we are."

"I think I could jump over it," said the Cowardly Lion, after measuring
the distance carefully in his mind.

"Then we are all right," answered the Scarecrow, "for you can carry us
all over on your back, one at a time."

"Well, I'll try it," said the Lion.  "Who will go first?"

"I will," declared the Scarecrow, "for, if you found that you could not
jump over the gulf, Dorothy would be killed, or the Tin Woodman badly
dented on the rocks below.  But if I am on your back it will not matter
so much, for the fall would not hurt me at all."

"I am terribly afraid of falling, myself," said the Cowardly Lion, "but
I suppose there is nothing to do but try it.  So get on my back and we
will make the attempt."

The Scarecrow sat upon the Lion's back, and the big beast walked to the
edge of the gulf and crouched down.

"Why don't you run and jump?" asked the Scarecrow.

"Because that isn't the way we Lions do these things," he replied.
Then giving a great spring, he shot through the air and landed safely
on the other side.  They were all greatly pleased to see how easily he
did it, and after the Scarecrow had got down from his back the Lion
sprang across the ditch again.

Dorothy thought she would go next; so she took Toto in her arms and
climbed on the Lion's back, holding tightly to his mane with one hand.
The next moment it seemed as if she were flying through the air; and
then, before she had time to think about it, she was safe on the other
side.  The Lion went back a third time and got the Tin Woodman, and
then they all sat down for a few moments to give the beast a chance to
rest, for his great leaps had made his breath short, and he panted like
a big dog that has been running too long.

They found the forest very thick on this side, and it looked dark and
gloomy.  After the Lion had rested they started along the road of
yellow brick, silently wondering, each in his own mind, if ever they
would come to the end of the woods and reach the bright sunshine again.
To add to their discomfort, they soon heard strange noises in the
depths of the forest, and the Lion whispered to them that it was in
this part of the country that the Kalidahs lived.

"What are the Kalidahs?" asked the girl.

"They are monstrous beasts with bodies like bears and heads like
tigers," replied the Lion, "and with claws so long and sharp that they
could tear me in two as easily as I could kill Toto.  I'm terribly
afraid of the Kalidahs."

"I'm not surprised that you are," returned Dorothy.  "They must be
dreadful beasts."

The Lion was about to reply when suddenly they came to another gulf
across the road.  But this one was so broad and deep that the Lion knew
at once he could not leap across it.

So they sat down to consider what they should do, and after serious
thought the Scarecrow said:

"Here is a great tree, standing close to the ditch.  If the Tin Woodman
can chop it down, so that it will fall to the other side, we can walk
across it easily."

"That is a first-rate idea," said the Lion.  "One would almost suspect
you had brains in your head, instead of straw."

The Woodman set to work at once, and so sharp was his axe that the tree
was soon chopped nearly through.  Then the Lion put his strong front
legs against the tree and pushed with all his might, and slowly the big
tree tipped and fell with a crash across the ditch, with its top
branches on the other side.

They had just started to cross this queer bridge when a sharp growl
made them all look up, and to their horror they saw running toward them
two great beasts with bodies like bears and heads like tigers.

"They are the Kalidahs!" said the Cowardly Lion, beginning to tremble.

"Quick!" cried the Scarecrow.  "Let us cross over."

So Dorothy went first, holding Toto in her arms, the Tin Woodman
followed, and the Scarecrow came next.  The Lion, although he was
certainly afraid, turned to face the Kalidahs, and then he gave so loud
and terrible a roar that Dorothy screamed and the Scarecrow fell over
backward, while even the fierce beasts stopped short and looked at him
in surprise.

But, seeing they were bigger than the Lion, and remembering that there
were two of them and only one of him, the Kalidahs again rushed
forward, and the Lion crossed over the tree and turned to see what they
would do next.  Without stopping an instant the fierce beasts also
began to cross the tree.  And the Lion said to Dorothy:

"We are lost, for they will surely tear us to pieces with their sharp
claws.  But stand close behind me, and I will fight them as long as I
am alive."

"Wait a minute!" called the Scarecrow.  He had been thinking what was
best to be done, and now he asked the Woodman to chop away the end of
the tree that rested on their side of the ditch.  The Tin Woodman began
to use his axe at once, and, just as the two Kalidahs were nearly
across, the tree fell with a crash into the gulf, carrying the ugly,
snarling brutes with it, and both were dashed to pieces on the sharp
rocks at the bottom.

"Well," said the Cowardly Lion, drawing a long breath of relief, "I see
we are going to live a little while longer, and I am glad of it, for it
must be a very uncomfortable thing not to be alive.  Those creatures
frightened me so badly that my heart is beating yet."

"Ah," said the Tin Woodman sadly, "I wish I had a heart to beat."

This adventure made the travelers more anxious than ever to get out of
the forest, and they walked so fast that Dorothy became tired, and had
to ride on the Lion's back.  To their great joy the trees became
thinner the farther they advanced, and in the afternoon they suddenly
came upon a broad river, flowing swiftly just before them.  On the
other side of the water they could see the road of yellow brick running
through a beautiful country, with green meadows dotted with bright
flowers and all the road bordered with trees hanging full of delicious
fruits.  They were greatly pleased to see this delightful country
before them.

"How shall we cross the river?" asked Dorothy.

"That is easily done," replied the Scarecrow.  "The Tin Woodman must
build us a raft, so we can float to the other side."

So the Woodman took his axe and began to chop down small trees to make
a raft, and while he was busy at this the Scarecrow found on the
riverbank a tree full of fine fruit.  This pleased Dorothy, who had
eaten nothing but nuts all day, and she made a hearty meal of the ripe
fruit.

But it takes time to make a raft, even when one is as industrious and
untiring as the Tin Woodman, and when night came the work was not done.
So they found a cozy place under the trees where they slept well until
the morning; and Dorothy dreamed of the Emerald City, and of the good
Wizard Oz, who would soon send her back to her own home again.




8.  The Deadly Poppy Field


Our little party of travelers awakened the next morning refreshed and
full of hope, and Dorothy breakfasted like a princess off peaches and
plums from the trees beside the river.  Behind them was the dark forest
they had passed safely through, although they had suffered many
discouragements; but before them was a lovely, sunny country that
seemed to beckon them on to the Emerald City.

To be sure, the broad river now cut them off from this beautiful land.
But the raft was nearly done, and after the Tin Woodman had cut a few
more logs and fastened them together with wooden pins, they were ready
to start.  Dorothy sat down in the middle of the raft and held Toto in
her arms.  When the Cowardly Lion stepped upon the raft it tipped
badly, for he was big and heavy; but the Scarecrow and the Tin Woodman
stood upon the other end to steady it, and they had long poles in their
hands to push the raft through the water.

They got along quite well at first, but when they reached the middle of
the river the swift current swept the raft downstream, farther and
farther away from the road of yellow brick.  And the water grew so deep
that the long poles would not touch the bottom.

"This is bad," said the Tin Woodman, "for if we cannot get to the land
we shall be carried into the country of the Wicked Witch of the West,
and she will enchant us and make us her slaves."

"And then I should get no brains," said the Scarecrow.

"And I should get no courage," said the Cowardly Lion.

"And I should get no heart," said the Tin Woodman.

"And I should never get back to Kansas," said Dorothy.

"We must certainly get to the Emerald City if we can," the Scarecrow
continued, and he pushed so hard on his long pole that it stuck fast in
the mud at the bottom of the river.  Then, before he could pull it out
again--or let go--the raft was swept away, and the poor Scarecrow left
clinging to the pole in the middle of the river.

"Good-bye!" he called after them, and they were very sorry to leave
him.  Indeed, the Tin Woodman began to cry, but fortunately remembered
that he might rust, and so dried his tears on Dorothy's apron.

Of course this was a bad thing for the Scarecrow.

"I am now worse off than when I first met Dorothy," he thought.  "Then,
I was stuck on a pole in a cornfield, where I could make-believe scare
the crows, at any rate.  But surely there is no use for a Scarecrow
stuck on a pole in the middle of a river.  I am afraid I shall never
have any brains, after all!"

Down the stream the raft floated, and the poor Scarecrow was left far
behind.  Then the Lion said:

"Something must be done to save us.  I think I can swim to the shore
and pull the raft after me, if you will only hold fast to the tip of my
tail."

So he sprang into the water, and the Tin Woodman caught fast hold of
his tail.  Then the Lion began to swim with all his might toward the
shore.  It was hard work, although he was so big; but by and by they
were drawn out of the current, and then Dorothy took the Tin Woodman's
long pole and helped push the raft to the land.

They were all tired out when they reached the shore at last and stepped
off upon the pretty green grass, and they also knew that the stream had
carried them a long way past the road of yellow brick that led to the
Emerald City.

"What shall we do now?" asked the Tin Woodman, as the Lion lay down on
the grass to let the sun dry him.

"We must get back to the road, in some way," said Dorothy.

"The best plan will be to walk along the riverbank until we come to the
road again," remarked the Lion.

So, when they were rested, Dorothy picked up her basket and they
started along the grassy bank, to the road from which the river had
carried them.  It was a lovely country, with plenty of flowers and
fruit trees and sunshine to cheer them, and had they not felt so sorry
for the poor Scarecrow, they could have been very happy.

They walked along as fast as they could, Dorothy only stopping once to
pick a beautiful flower; and after a time the Tin Woodman cried out:
"Look!"

Then they all looked at the river and saw the Scarecrow perched upon
his pole in the middle of the water, looking very lonely and sad.

"What can we do to save him?" asked Dorothy.

The Lion and the Woodman both shook their heads, for they did not know.
So they sat down upon the bank and gazed wistfully at the Scarecrow
until a Stork flew by, who, upon seeing them, stopped to rest at the
water's edge.

"Who are you and where are you going?" asked the Stork.

"I am Dorothy," answered the girl, "and these are my friends, the Tin
Woodman and the Cowardly Lion;  and we are going to the Emerald City."

"This isn't the road," said the Stork, as she twisted her long neck and
looked sharply at the queer party.

"I know it," returned Dorothy, "but we have lost the Scarecrow, and are
wondering how we shall get him again."

"Where is he?" asked the Stork.

"Over there in the river," answered the little girl.

"If he wasn't so big and heavy I would get him for you," remarked the
Stork.

"He isn't heavy a bit," said Dorothy eagerly, "for he is stuffed with
straw; and if you will bring him back to us, we shall thank you ever
and ever so much."

"Well, I'll try," said the Stork, "but if I find he is too heavy to
carry I shall have to drop him in the river again."

So the big bird flew into the air and over the water till she came to
where the Scarecrow was perched upon his pole.  Then the Stork with her
great claws grabbed the Scarecrow by the arm and carried him up into
the air and back to the bank, where Dorothy and the Lion and the Tin
Woodman and Toto were sitting.

When the Scarecrow found himself among his friends again, he was so
happy that he hugged them all, even the Lion and Toto; and as they
walked along he sang "Tol-de-ri-de-oh!" at every step, he felt so gay.

"I was afraid I should have to stay in the river forever," he said,
"but the kind Stork saved me, and if I ever get any brains I shall find
the Stork again and do her some kindness in return."

"That's all right," said the Stork, who was flying along beside them.
"I always like to help anyone in trouble.  But I must go now, for my
babies are waiting in the nest for me.  I hope you will find the
Emerald City and that Oz will help you."

"Thank you," replied Dorothy, and then the kind Stork flew into the air
and was soon out of sight.

They walked along listening to the singing of the brightly colored
birds and looking at the lovely flowers which now became so thick that
the ground was carpeted with them.  There were big yellow and white and
blue and purple blossoms, besides great clusters of scarlet poppies,
which were so brilliant in color they almost dazzled Dorothy's eyes.

"Aren't they beautiful?" the girl asked, as she breathed in the spicy
scent of the bright flowers.

"I suppose so," answered the Scarecrow.  "When I have brains, I shall
probably like them better."

"If I only had a heart, I should love them," added the Tin Woodman.

"I always did like flowers," said the Lion.  "They of seem so helpless
and frail.  But there are none in the forest so bright as these."

They now came upon more and more of the big scarlet poppies, and fewer
and fewer of the other flowers; and soon they found themselves in the
midst of a great meadow of poppies.  Now it is well known that when
there are many of these flowers together their odor is so powerful that
anyone who breathes it falls asleep, and if the sleeper is not carried
away from the scent of the flowers, he sleeps on and on forever.  But
Dorothy did not know this, nor could she get away from the bright red
flowers that were everywhere about; so presently her eyes grew heavy
and she felt she must sit down to rest and to sleep.

But the Tin Woodman would not let her do this.

"We must hurry and get back to the road of yellow brick before dark,"
he said; and the Scarecrow agreed with him.  So they kept walking until
Dorothy could stand no longer.  Her eyes closed in spite of herself and
she forgot where she was and fell among the poppies, fast asleep.

"What shall we do?" asked the Tin Woodman.

"If we leave her here she will die," said the Lion.  "The smell of the
flowers is killing us all.  I myself can scarcely keep my eyes open,
and the dog is asleep already."

It was true; Toto had fallen down beside his little mistress.  But the
Scarecrow and the Tin Woodman, not being made of flesh, were not
troubled by the scent of the flowers.

"Run fast," said the Scarecrow to the Lion, "and get out of this deadly
flower bed as soon as you can.  We will bring the little girl with us,
but if you should fall asleep you are too big to be carried."

So the Lion aroused himself and bounded forward as fast as he could go.
In a moment he was out of sight.

"Let us make a chair with our hands and carry her," said the Scarecrow.
So they picked up Toto and put the dog in Dorothy's lap, and then they
made a chair with their hands for the seat and their arms for the arms
and carried the sleeping girl between them through the flowers.

On and on they walked, and it seemed that the great carpet of deadly
flowers that surrounded them would never end.  They followed the bend
of the river, and at last came upon their friend the Lion, lying fast
asleep among the poppies.  The flowers had been too strong for the huge
beast and he had given up at last, and fallen only a short distance
from the end of the poppy bed, where the sweet grass spread in
beautiful green fields before them.

"We can do nothing for him," said the Tin Woodman, sadly; "for he is
much too heavy to lift.  We must leave him here to sleep on forever,
and perhaps he will dream that he has found courage at last."

"I'm sorry," said the Scarecrow.  "The Lion was a very good comrade for
one so cowardly.  But let us go on."

They carried the sleeping girl to a pretty spot beside the river, far
enough from the poppy field to prevent her breathing any more of the
poison of the flowers, and here they laid her gently on the soft grass
and waited for the fresh breeze to waken her.




9.  The Queen of the Field Mice


"We cannot be far from the road of yellow brick, now," remarked the
Scarecrow, as he stood beside the girl, "for we have come nearly as far
as the river carried us away."

The Tin Woodman was about to reply when he heard a low growl, and
turning his head (which worked beautifully on hinges) he saw a strange
beast come bounding over the grass toward them.  It was, indeed, a
great yellow Wildcat, and the Woodman thought it must be chasing
something, for its ears were lying close to its head and its mouth was
wide open, showing two rows of ugly teeth, while its red eyes glowed
like balls of fire.  As it came nearer the Tin Woodman saw that running
before the beast was a little gray field mouse, and although he had no
heart he knew it was wrong for the Wildcat to try to kill such a
pretty, harmless creature.

So the Woodman raised his axe, and as the Wildcat ran by he gave it a
quick blow that cut the beast's head clean off from its body, and it
rolled over at his feet in two pieces.

The field mouse, now that it was freed from its enemy, stopped short;
and coming slowly up to the Woodman it said, in a squeaky little voice:

"Oh, thank you!  Thank you ever so much for saving my life."

"Don't speak of it, I beg of you," replied the Woodman.  "I have no
heart, you know, so I am careful to help all those who may need a
friend, even if it happens to be only a mouse."

"Only a mouse!" cried the little animal, indignantly.  "Why, I am a
Queen--the Queen of all the Field Mice!"

"Oh, indeed," said the Woodman, making a bow.

"Therefore you have done a great deed, as well as a brave one, in
saving my life," added the Queen.

At that moment several mice were seen running up as fast as their
little legs could carry them, and when they saw their Queen they
exclaimed:

"Oh, your Majesty, we thought you would be killed!  How did you manage
to escape the great Wildcat?"  They all bowed so low to the little
Queen that they almost stood upon their heads.

"This funny tin man," she answered, "killed the Wildcat and saved my
life.  So hereafter you must all serve him, and obey his slightest
wish."

"We will!" cried all the mice, in a shrill chorus.  And then they
scampered in all directions, for Toto had awakened from his sleep, and
seeing all these mice around him he gave one bark of delight and jumped
right into the middle of the group.  Toto had always loved to chase
mice when he lived in Kansas, and he saw no harm in it.

But the Tin Woodman caught the dog in his arms and held him tight,
while he called to the mice, "Come back!  Come back!  Toto shall not
hurt you."

At this the Queen of the Mice stuck her head out from underneath a
clump of grass and asked, in a timid voice, "Are you sure he will not
bite us?"

"I will not let him," said the Woodman; "so do not be afraid."

One by one the mice came creeping back, and Toto did not bark again,
although he tried to get out of the Woodman's arms, and would have
bitten him had he not known very well he was made of tin.  Finally one
of the biggest mice spoke.

"Is there anything we can do," it asked, "to repay you for saving the
life of our Queen?"

"Nothing that I know of," answered the Woodman; but the Scarecrow, who
had been trying to think, but could not because his head was stuffed
with straw, said, quickly, "Oh, yes; you can save our friend, the
Cowardly Lion, who is asleep in the poppy bed."

"A Lion!" cried the little Queen.  "Why, he would eat us all up."

"Oh, no," declared the Scarecrow; "this Lion is a coward."

"Really?" asked the Mouse.

"He says so himself," answered the Scarecrow, "and he would never hurt
anyone who is our friend.  If you will help us to save him I promise
that he shall treat you all with kindness."

"Very well," said the Queen, "we trust you.  But what shall we do?"

"Are there many of these mice which call you Queen and are willing to
obey you?"

"Oh, yes; there are thousands," she replied.

"Then send for them all to come here as soon as possible, and let each
one bring a long piece of string."

The Queen turned to the mice that attended her and told them to go at
once and get all her people.  As soon as they heard her orders they ran
away in every direction as fast as possible.

"Now," said the Scarecrow to the Tin Woodman, "you must go to those
trees by the riverside and make a truck that will carry the Lion."

So the Woodman went at once to the trees and began to work; and he soon
made a truck out of the limbs of trees, from which he chopped away all
the leaves and branches.  He fastened it together with wooden pegs and
made the four wheels out of short pieces of a big tree trunk.  So fast
and so well did he work that by the time the mice began to arrive the
truck was all ready for them.

They came from all directions, and there were thousands of them: big
mice and little mice and middle-sized mice; and each one brought a
piece of string in his mouth.  It was about this time that Dorothy woke
from her long sleep and opened her eyes.  She was greatly astonished to
find herself lying upon the grass, with thousands of mice standing
around and looking at her timidly.  But the Scarecrow told her about
everything, and turning to the dignified little Mouse, he said:

"Permit me to introduce to you her Majesty, the Queen."

Dorothy nodded gravely and the Queen made a curtsy, after which she
became quite friendly with the little girl.

The Scarecrow and the Woodman now began to fasten the mice to the
truck, using the strings they had brought.  One end of a string was
tied around the neck of each mouse and the other end to the truck.  Of
course the truck was a thousand times bigger than any of the mice who
were to draw it; but when all the mice had been harnessed, they were
able to pull it quite easily.  Even the Scarecrow and the Tin Woodman
could sit on it, and were drawn swiftly by their queer little horses to
the place where the Lion lay asleep.

After a great deal of hard work, for the Lion was heavy, they managed
to get him up on the truck.  Then the Queen hurriedly gave her people
the order to start, for she feared if the mice stayed among the poppies
too long they also would fall asleep.

At first the little creatures, many though they were, could hardly stir
the heavily loaded truck; but the Woodman and the Scarecrow both pushed
from behind, and they got along better.  Soon they rolled the Lion out
of the poppy bed to the green fields, where he could breathe the sweet,
fresh air again, instead of the poisonous scent of the flowers.

Dorothy came to meet them and thanked the little mice warmly for saving
her companion from death.  She had grown so fond of the big Lion she
was glad he had been rescued.

Then the mice were unharnessed from the truck and scampered away
through the grass to their homes.  The Queen of the Mice was the last
to leave.

"If ever you need us again," she said, "come out into the field and
call, and we shall hear you and come to your assistance.  Good-bye!"

"Good-bye!" they all answered, and away the Queen ran, while Dorothy
held Toto tightly lest he should run after her and frighten her.

After this they sat down beside the Lion until he should awaken; and
the Scarecrow brought Dorothy some fruit from a tree near by, which she
ate for her dinner.




10.  The Guardian of the Gate


It was some time before the Cowardly Lion awakened, for he had lain
among the poppies a long while, breathing in their deadly fragrance;
but when he did open his eyes and roll off the truck he was very glad
to find himself still alive.

"I ran as fast as I could," he said, sitting down and yawning, "but the
flowers were too strong for me.  How did you get me out?"

Then they told him of the field mice, and how they had generously saved
him from death; and the Cowardly Lion laughed, and said:

"I have always thought myself very big and terrible; yet such little
things as flowers came near to killing me, and such small animals as
mice have saved my life.  How strange it all is!  But, comrades, what
shall we do now?"

"We must journey on until we find the road of yellow brick again," said
Dorothy, "and then we can keep on to the Emerald City."

So, the Lion being fully refreshed, and feeling quite himself again,
they all started upon the journey, greatly enjoying the walk through
the soft, fresh grass; and it was not long before they reached the road
of yellow brick and turned again toward the Emerald City where the
Great Oz dwelt.

The road was smooth and well paved, now, and the country about was
beautiful, so that the travelers rejoiced in leaving the forest far
behind, and with it the many dangers they had met in its gloomy shades.
Once more they could see fences built beside the road; but these were
painted green, and when they came to a small house, in which a farmer
evidently lived, that also was painted green.  They passed by several
of these houses during the afternoon, and sometimes people came to the
doors and looked at them as if they would like to ask questions; but no
one came near them nor spoke to them because of the great Lion, of
which they were very much afraid.  The people were all dressed in
clothing of a lovely emerald-green color and wore peaked hats like
those of the Munchkins.

"This must be the Land of Oz," said Dorothy, "and we are surely getting
near the Emerald City."

"Yes," answered the Scarecrow.  "Everything is green here, while in the
country of the Munchkins blue was the favorite color.  But the people
do not seem to be as friendly as the Munchkins, and I'm afraid we shall
be unable to find a place to pass the night."

"I should like something to eat besides fruit," said the girl, "and I'm
sure Toto is nearly starved.  Let us stop at the next house and talk to
the people."

So, when they came to a good-sized farmhouse, Dorothy walked boldly up
to the door and knocked.

A woman opened it just far enough to look out, and said, "What do you
want, child, and why is that great Lion with you?"

"We wish to pass the night with you, if you will allow us," answered
Dorothy; "and the Lion is my friend and comrade, and would not hurt you
for the world."

"Is he tame?" asked the woman, opening the door a little wider.

"Oh, yes," said the girl, "and he is a great coward, too.  He will be
more afraid of you than you are of him."

"Well," said the woman, after thinking it over and taking another peep
at the Lion, "if that is the case you may come in, and I will give you
some supper and a place to sleep."

So they all entered the house, where there were, besides the woman, two
children and a man.  The man had hurt his leg, and was lying on the
couch in a corner.  They seemed greatly surprised to see so strange a
company, and while the woman was busy laying the table the man asked:

"Where are you all going?"

"To the Emerald City," said Dorothy, "to see the Great Oz."

"Oh, indeed!" exclaimed the man.  "Are you sure that Oz will see you?"

"Why not?" she replied.

"Why, it is said that he never lets anyone come into his presence.  I
have been to the Emerald City many times, and it is a beautiful and
wonderful place; but I have never been permitted to see the Great Oz,
nor do I know of any living person who has seen him."

"Does he never go out?" asked the Scarecrow.

"Never.  He sits day after day in the great Throne Room of his Palace,
and even those who wait upon him do not see him face to face."

"What is he like?" asked the girl.

"That is hard to tell," said the man thoughtfully.  "You see, Oz is a
Great Wizard, and can take on any form he wishes.  So that some say he
looks like a bird; and some say he looks like an elephant; and some say
he looks like a cat.  To others he appears as a beautiful fairy, or a
brownie, or in any other form that pleases him.  But who the real Oz
is, when he is in his own form, no living person can tell."

"That is very strange," said Dorothy, "but we must try, in some way, to
see him, or we shall have made our journey for nothing."

"Why do you wish to see the terrible Oz?" asked the man.

"I want him to give me some brains," said the Scarecrow eagerly.

"Oh, Oz could do that easily enough," declared the man.  "He has more
brains than he needs."

"And I want him to give me a heart," said the Tin Woodman.

"That will not trouble him," continued the man, "for Oz has a large
collection of hearts, of all sizes and shapes."

"And I want him to give me courage," said the Cowardly Lion.

"Oz keeps a great pot of courage in his Throne Room," said the man,
"which he has covered with a golden plate, to keep it from running
over.  He will be glad to give you some."

"And I want him to send me back to Kansas," said Dorothy.

"Where is Kansas?" asked the man, with surprise.

"I don't know," replied Dorothy sorrowfully, "but it is my home, and
I'm sure it's somewhere."

"Very likely.  Well, Oz can do anything; so I suppose he will find
Kansas for you.  But first you must get to see him, and that will be a
hard task; for the Great Wizard does not like to see anyone, and he
usually has his own way.  But what do YOU want?" he continued, speaking
to Toto.  Toto only wagged his tail; for, strange to say, he could not
speak.

The woman now called to them that supper was ready, so they gathered
around the table and Dorothy ate some delicious porridge and a dish of
scrambled eggs and a plate of nice white bread, and enjoyed her meal.
The Lion ate some of the porridge, but did not care for it, saying it
was made from oats and oats were food for horses, not for lions.  The
Scarecrow and the Tin Woodman ate nothing at all.  Toto ate a little of
everything, and was glad to get a good supper again.

The woman now gave Dorothy a bed to sleep in, and Toto lay down beside
her, while the Lion guarded the door of her room so she might not be
disturbed.  The Scarecrow and the Tin Woodman stood up in a corner and
kept quiet all night, although of course they could not sleep.

The next morning, as soon as the sun was up, they started on their way,
and soon saw a beautiful green glow in the sky just before them.

"That must be the Emerald City," said Dorothy.

As they walked on, the green glow became brighter and brighter, and it
seemed that at last they were nearing the end of their travels.  Yet it
was afternoon before they came to the great wall that surrounded the
City.  It was high and thick and of a bright green color.

In front of them, and at the end of the road of yellow brick, was a big
gate, all studded with emeralds that glittered so in the sun that even
the painted eyes of the Scarecrow were dazzled by their brilliancy.

There was a bell beside the gate, and Dorothy pushed the button and
heard a silvery tinkle sound within.  Then the big gate swung slowly
open, and they all passed through and found themselves in a high arched
room, the walls of which glistened with countless emeralds.

Before them stood a little man about the same size as the Munchkins.
He was clothed all in green, from his head to his feet, and even his
skin was of a greenish tint.  At his side was a large green box.

When he saw Dorothy and her companions the man asked, "What do you wish
in the Emerald City?"

"We came here to see the Great Oz," said Dorothy.

The man was so surprised at this answer that he sat down to think it
over.

"It has been many years since anyone asked me to see Oz," he said,
shaking his head in perplexity.  "He is powerful and terrible, and if
you come on an idle or foolish errand to bother the wise reflections of
the Great Wizard, he might be angry and destroy you all in an instant."

"But it is not a foolish errand, nor an idle one," replied the
Scarecrow; "it is important.  And we have been told that Oz is a good
Wizard."

"So he is," said the green man, "and he rules the Emerald City wisely
and well.  But to those who are not honest, or who approach him from
curiosity, he is most terrible, and few have ever dared ask to see his
face.  I am the Guardian of the Gates, and since you demand to see the
Great Oz I must take you to his Palace.  But first you must put on the
spectacles."

"Why?" asked Dorothy.

"Because if you did not wear spectacles the brightness and glory of the
Emerald City would blind you.  Even those who live in the City must
wear spectacles night and day.  They are all locked on, for Oz so
ordered it when the City was first built, and I have the only key that
will unlock them."

He opened the big box, and Dorothy saw that it was filled with
spectacles of every size and shape.  All of them had green glasses in
them.  The Guardian of the Gates found a pair that would just fit
Dorothy and put them over her eyes.  There were two golden bands
fastened to them that passed around the back of her head, where they
were locked together by a little key that was at the end of a chain the
Guardian of the Gates wore around his neck.  When they were on, Dorothy
could not take them off had she wished, but of course she did not wish
to be blinded by the glare of the Emerald City, so she said nothing.

Then the green man fitted spectacles for the Scarecrow and the Tin
Woodman and the Lion, and even on little Toto; and all were locked fast
with the key.

Then the Guardian of the Gates put on his own glasses and told them he
was ready to show them to the Palace.  Taking a big golden key from a
peg on the wall, he opened another gate, and they all followed him
through the portal into the streets of the Emerald City.




11.  The Wonderful City of Oz


Even with eyes protected by the green spectacles, Dorothy and her
friends were at first dazzled by the brilliancy of the wonderful City.
The streets were lined with beautiful houses all built of green marble
and studded everywhere with sparkling emeralds.  They walked over a
pavement of the same green marble, and where the blocks were joined
together were rows of emeralds, set closely, and glittering in the
brightness of the sun.  The window panes were of green glass; even the
sky above the City had a green tint, and the rays of the sun were green.

There were many people--men, women, and children--walking about, and
these were all dressed in green clothes and had greenish skins.  They
looked at Dorothy and her strangely assorted company with wondering
eyes, and the children all ran away and hid behind their mothers when
they saw the Lion; but no one spoke to them.  Many shops stood in the
street, and Dorothy saw that everything in them was green.  Green candy
and green pop corn were offered for sale, as well as green shoes, green
hats, and green clothes of all sorts.  At one place a man was selling
green lemonade, and when the children bought it Dorothy could see that
they paid for it with green pennies.

There seemed to be no horses nor animals of any kind; the men carried
things around in little green carts, which they pushed before them.
Everyone seemed happy and contented and prosperous.

The Guardian of the Gates led them through the streets until they came
to a big building, exactly in the middle of the City, which was the
Palace of Oz, the Great Wizard.  There was a soldier before the door,
dressed in a green uniform and wearing a long green beard.

"Here are strangers," said the Guardian of the Gates to him, "and they
demand to see the Great Oz."

"Step inside," answered the soldier, "and I will carry your message to
him."

So they passed through the Palace Gates and were led into a big room
with a green carpet and lovely green furniture set with emeralds.  The
soldier made them all wipe their feet upon a green mat before entering
this room, and when they were seated he said politely:

"Please make yourselves comfortable while I go to the door of the
Throne Room and tell Oz you are here."

They had to wait a long time before the soldier returned.  When, at
last, he came back, Dorothy asked:

"Have you seen Oz?"

"Oh, no," returned the soldier; "I have never seen him.  But I spoke to
him as he sat behind his screen and gave him your message.  He said he
will grant you an audience, if you so desire; but each one of you must
enter his presence alone, and he will admit but one each day.
Therefore, as you must remain in the Palace for several days, I will
have you shown to rooms where you may rest in comfort after your
journey."

"Thank you," replied the girl; "that is very kind of Oz."

The soldier now blew upon a green whistle, and at once a young girl,
dressed in a pretty green silk gown, entered the room.  She had lovely
green hair and green eyes, and she bowed low before Dorothy as she
said, "Follow me and I will show you your room."

So Dorothy said good-bye to all her friends except Toto, and taking the
dog in her arms followed the green girl through seven passages and up
three flights of stairs until they came to a room at the front of the
Palace.  It was the sweetest little room in the world, with a soft
comfortable bed that had sheets of green silk and a green velvet
counterpane.  There was a tiny fountain in the middle of the room, that
shot a spray of green perfume into the air, to fall back into a
beautifully carved green marble basin.  Beautiful green flowers stood
in the windows, and there was a shelf with a row of little green books.
When Dorothy had time to open these books she found them full of queer
green pictures that made her laugh, they were so funny.

In a wardrobe were many green dresses, made of silk and satin and
velvet; and all of them fitted Dorothy exactly.

"Make yourself perfectly at home," said the green girl, "and if you
wish for anything ring the bell.  Oz will send for you tomorrow
morning."

She left Dorothy alone and went back to the others.  These she also led
to rooms, and each one of them found himself lodged in a very pleasant
part of the Palace.  Of course this politeness was wasted on the
Scarecrow; for when he found himself alone in his room he stood
stupidly in one spot, just within the doorway, to wait till morning.
It would not rest him to lie down, and he could not close his eyes; so
he remained all night staring at a little spider which was weaving its
web in a corner of the room, just as if it were not one of the most
wonderful rooms in the world.  The Tin Woodman lay down on his bed from
force of habit, for he remembered when he was made of flesh; but not
being able to sleep, he passed the night moving his joints up and down
to make sure they kept in good working order.  The Lion would have
preferred a bed of dried leaves in the forest, and did not like being
shut up in a room; but he had too much sense to let this worry him, so
he sprang upon the bed and rolled himself up like a cat and purred
himself asleep in a minute.

The next morning, after breakfast, the green maiden came to fetch
Dorothy, and she dressed her in one of the prettiest gowns, made of
green brocaded satin.  Dorothy put on a green silk apron and tied a
green ribbon around Toto's neck, and they started for the Throne Room
of the Great Oz.

First they came to a great hall in which were many ladies and gentlemen
of the court, all dressed in rich costumes.  These people had nothing
to do but talk to each other, but they always came to wait outside the
Throne Room every morning, although they were never permitted to see
Oz.  As Dorothy entered they looked at her curiously, and one of them
whispered:

"Are you really going to look upon the face of Oz the Terrible?"

"Of course," answered the girl, "if he will see me."

"Oh, he will see you," said the soldier who had taken her message to
the Wizard, "although he does not like to have people ask to see him.
Indeed, at first he was angry and said I should send you back where you
came from.  Then he asked me what you looked like, and when I mentioned
your silver shoes he was very much interested.  At last I told him
about the mark upon your forehead, and he decided he would admit you to
his presence."

Just then a bell rang, and the green girl said to Dorothy, "That is the
signal.  You must go into the Throne Room alone."

She opened a little door and Dorothy walked boldly through and found
herself in a wonderful place.  It was a big, round room with a high
arched roof, and the walls and ceiling and floor were covered with
large emeralds set closely together.  In the center of the roof was a
great light, as bright as the sun, which made the emeralds sparkle in a
wonderful manner.

But what interested Dorothy most was the big throne of green marble
that stood in the middle of the room.  It was shaped like a chair and
sparkled with gems, as did everything else.  In the center of the chair
was an enormous Head, without a body to support it or any arms or legs
whatever.  There was no hair upon this head, but it had eyes and a nose
and mouth, and was much bigger than the head of the biggest giant.

As Dorothy gazed upon this in wonder and fear, the eyes turned slowly
and looked at her sharply and steadily.  Then the mouth moved, and
Dorothy heard a voice say:

"I am Oz, the Great and Terrible.  Who are you, and why do you seek me?"

It was not such an awful voice as she had expected to come from the big
Head; so she took courage and answered:

"I am Dorothy, the Small and Meek.  I have come to you for help."

The eyes looked at her thoughtfully for a full minute.  Then said the
voice:

"Where did you get the silver shoes?"

"I got them from the Wicked Witch of the East, when my house fell on
her and killed her," she replied.

"Where did you get the mark upon your forehead?" continued the voice.

"That is where the Good Witch of the North kissed me when she bade me
good-bye and sent me to you," said the girl.

Again the eyes looked at her sharply, and they saw she was telling the
truth.  Then Oz asked, "What do you wish me to do?"

"Send me back to Kansas, where my Aunt Em and Uncle Henry are," she
answered earnestly.  "I don't like your country, although it is so
beautiful.  And I am sure Aunt Em will be dreadfully worried over my
being away so long."

The eyes winked three times, and then they turned up to the ceiling and
down to the floor and rolled around so queerly that they seemed to see
every part of the room.  And at last they looked at Dorothy again.

"Why should I do this for you?" asked Oz.

"Because you are strong and I am weak; because you are a Great Wizard
and I am only a little girl."

"But you were strong enough to kill the Wicked Witch of the East," said
Oz.

"That just happened," returned Dorothy simply; "I could not help it."

"Well," said the Head, "I will give you my answer.  You have no right
to expect me to send you back to Kansas unless you do something for me
in return.  In this country everyone must pay for everything he gets.
If you wish me to use my magic power to send you home again you must do
something for me first.  Help me and I will help you."

"What must I do?" asked the girl.

"Kill the Wicked Witch of the West," answered Oz.

"But I cannot!" exclaimed Dorothy, greatly surprised.

"You killed the Witch of the East and you wear the silver shoes, which
bear a powerful charm.  There is now but one Wicked Witch left in all
this land, and when you can tell me she is dead I will send you back to
Kansas--but not before."

The little girl began to weep, she was so much disappointed; and the
eyes winked again and looked upon her anxiously, as if the Great Oz
felt that she could help him if she would.

"I never killed anything, willingly," she sobbed.  "Even if I wanted
to, how could I kill the Wicked Witch?  If you, who are Great and
Terrible, cannot kill her yourself, how do you expect me to do it?"

"I do not know," said the Head; "but that is my answer, and until the
Wicked Witch dies you will not see your uncle and aunt again.  Remember
that the Witch is Wicked--tremendously Wicked--and ought to be killed.
Now go, and do not ask to see me again until you have done your task."

Sorrowfully Dorothy left the Throne Room and went back where the Lion
and the Scarecrow and the Tin Woodman were waiting to hear what Oz had
said to her.  "There is no hope for me," she said sadly, "for Oz will
not send me home until I have killed the Wicked Witch of the West; and
that I can never do."

Her friends were sorry, but could do nothing to help her; so Dorothy
went to her own room and lay down on the bed and cried herself to sleep.

The next morning the soldier with the green whiskers came to the
Scarecrow and said:

"Come with me, for Oz has sent for you."

So the Scarecrow followed him and was admitted into the great Throne
Room, where he saw, sitting in the emerald throne, a most lovely Lady.
She was dressed in green silk gauze and wore upon her flowing green
locks a crown of jewels.  Growing from her shoulders were wings,
gorgeous in color and so light that they fluttered if the slightest
breath of air reached them.

When the Scarecrow had bowed, as prettily as his straw stuffing would
let him, before this beautiful creature, she looked upon him sweetly,
and said:

"I am Oz, the Great and Terrible.  Who are you, and why do you seek me?"

Now the Scarecrow, who had expected to see the great Head Dorothy had
told him of, was much astonished; but he answered her bravely.

"I am only a Scarecrow, stuffed with straw.  Therefore I have no
brains, and I come to you praying that you will put brains in my head
instead of straw, so that I may become as much a man as any other in
your dominions."

"Why should I do this for you?" asked the Lady.

"Because you are wise and powerful, and no one else can help me,"
answered the Scarecrow.

"I never grant favors without some return," said Oz; "but this much I
will promise.  If you will kill for me the Wicked Witch of the West, I
will bestow upon you a great many brains, and such good brains that you
will be the wisest man in all the Land of Oz."

"I thought you asked Dorothy to kill the Witch," said the Scarecrow, in
surprise.

"So I did.  I don't care who kills her.  But until she is dead I will
not grant your wish.  Now go, and do not seek me again until you have
earned the brains you so greatly desire."

The Scarecrow went sorrowfully back to his friends and told them what
Oz had said; and Dorothy was surprised to find that the Great Wizard
was not a Head, as she had seen him, but a lovely Lady.

"All the same," said the Scarecrow, "she needs a heart as much as the
Tin Woodman."

On the next morning the soldier with the green whiskers came to the Tin
Woodman and said:

"Oz has sent for you.  Follow me."

So the Tin Woodman followed him and came to the great Throne Room.  He
did not know whether he would find Oz a lovely Lady or a Head, but he
hoped it would be the lovely Lady.  "For," he said to himself, "if it
is the head, I am sure I shall not be given a heart, since a head has
no heart of its own and therefore cannot feel for me.  But if it is the
lovely Lady I shall beg hard for a heart, for all ladies are themselves
said to be kindly hearted."

But when the Woodman entered the great Throne Room he saw neither the
Head nor the Lady, for Oz had taken the shape of a most terrible Beast.
It was nearly as big as an elephant, and the green throne seemed hardly
strong enough to hold its weight.  The Beast had a head like that of a
rhinoceros, only there were five eyes in its face.  There were five
long arms growing out of its body, and it also had five long, slim
legs.  Thick, woolly hair covered every part of it, and a more
dreadful-looking monster could not be imagined.  It was fortunate the
Tin Woodman had no heart at that moment, for it would have beat loud
and fast from terror.  But being only tin, the Woodman was not at all
afraid, although he was much disappointed.

"I am Oz, the Great and Terrible," spoke the Beast, in a voice that was
one great roar.  "Who are you, and why do you seek me?"

"I am a Woodman, and made of tin.  Therefore I have no heart, and
cannot love.  I pray you to give me a heart that I may be as other men
are."

"Why should I do this?" demanded the Beast.

"Because I ask it, and you alone can grant my request," answered the
Woodman.

Oz gave a low growl at this, but said, gruffly: "If you indeed desire a
heart, you must earn it."

"How?" asked the Woodman.

"Help Dorothy to kill the Wicked Witch of the West," replied the Beast.
"When the Witch is dead, come to me, and I will then give you the
biggest and kindest and most loving heart in all the Land of Oz."

So the Tin Woodman was forced to return sorrowfully to his friends and
tell them of the terrible Beast he had seen.  They all wondered greatly
at the many forms the Great Wizard could take upon himself, and the
Lion said:

"If he is a Beast when I go to see him, I shall roar my loudest, and so
frighten him that he will grant all I ask.  And if he is the lovely
Lady, I shall pretend to spring upon her, and so compel her to do my
bidding.  And if he is the great Head, he will be at my mercy; for I
will roll this head all about the room until he promises to give us
what we desire.  So be of good cheer, my friends, for all will yet be
well."

The next morning the soldier with the green whiskers led the Lion to
the great Throne Room and bade him enter the presence of Oz.

The Lion at once passed through the door, and glancing around saw, to
his surprise, that before the throne was a Ball of Fire, so fierce and
glowing he could scarcely bear to gaze upon it.  His first thought was
that Oz had by accident caught on fire and was burning up; but when he
tried to go nearer, the heat was so intense that it singed his
whiskers, and he crept back tremblingly to a spot nearer the door.

Then a low, quiet voice came from the Ball of Fire, and these were the
words it spoke:

"I am Oz, the Great and Terrible.  Who are you, and why do you seek me?"

And the Lion answered, "I am a Cowardly Lion, afraid of everything.  I
came to you to beg that you give me courage, so that in reality I may
become the King of Beasts, as men call me."

"Why should I give you courage?" demanded Oz.

"Because of all Wizards you are the greatest, and alone have power to
grant my request," answered the Lion.

The Ball of Fire burned fiercely for a time, and the voice said, "Bring
me proof that the Wicked Witch is dead, and that moment I will give you
courage.  But as long as the Witch lives, you must remain a coward."

The Lion was angry at this speech, but could say nothing in reply, and
while he stood silently gazing at the Ball of Fire it became so
furiously hot that he turned tail and rushed from the room.  He was
glad to find his friends waiting for him, and told them of his terrible
interview with the Wizard.

"What shall we do now?" asked Dorothy sadly.

"There is only one thing we can do," returned the Lion, "and that is to
go to the land of the Winkies, seek out the Wicked Witch, and destroy
her."

"But suppose we cannot?" said the girl.

"Then I shall never have courage," declared the Lion.

"And I shall never have brains," added the Scarecrow.

"And I shall never have a heart," spoke the Tin Woodman.

"And I shall never see Aunt Em and Uncle Henry," said Dorothy,
beginning to cry.

"Be careful!" cried the green girl.  "The tears will fall on your green
silk gown and spot it."

So Dorothy dried her eyes and said, "I suppose we must try it; but I am
sure I do not want to kill anybody, even to see Aunt Em again."

"I will go with you; but I'm too much of a coward to kill the Witch,"
said the Lion.

"I will go too," declared the Scarecrow; "but I shall not be of much
help to you, I am such a fool."

"I haven't the heart to harm even a Witch," remarked the Tin Woodman;
"but if you go I certainly shall go with you."

Therefore it was decided to start upon their journey the next morning,
and the Woodman sharpened his axe on a green grindstone and had all his
joints properly oiled.  The Scarecrow stuffed himself with fresh straw
and Dorothy put new paint on his eyes that he might see better.  The
green girl, who was very kind to them, filled Dorothy's basket with
good things to eat, and fastened a little bell around Toto's neck with
a green ribbon.

They went to bed quite early and slept soundly until daylight, when
they were awakened by the crowing of a green cock that lived in the
back yard of the Palace, and the cackling of a hen that had laid a
green egg.




12.  The Search for the Wicked Witch


The soldier with the green whiskers led them through the streets of the
Emerald City until they reached the room where the Guardian of the
Gates lived.  This officer unlocked their spectacles to put them back
in his great box, and then he politely opened the gate for our friends.

"Which road leads to the Wicked Witch of the West?" asked Dorothy.

"There is no road," answered the Guardian of the Gates.  "No one ever
wishes to go that way."

"How, then, are we to find her?" inquired the girl.

"That will be easy," replied the man, "for when she knows you are in
the country of the Winkies she will find you, and make you all her
slaves."

"Perhaps not," said the Scarecrow, "for we mean to destroy her."

"Oh, that is different," said the Guardian of the Gates.  "No one has
ever destroyed her before, so I naturally thought she would make slaves
of you, as she has of the rest.  But take care; for she is wicked and
fierce, and may not allow you to destroy her.  Keep to the West, where
the sun sets, and you cannot fail to find her."

They thanked him and bade him good-bye, and turned toward the West,
walking over fields of soft grass dotted here and there with daisies
and buttercups.  Dorothy still wore the pretty silk dress she had put
on in the palace, but now, to her surprise, she found it was no longer
green, but pure white.  The ribbon around Toto's neck had also lost its
green color and was as white as Dorothy's dress.

The Emerald City was soon left far behind.  As they advanced the ground
became rougher and hillier, for there were no farms nor houses in this
country of the West, and the ground was untilled.

In the afternoon the sun shone hot in their faces, for there were no
trees to offer them shade; so that before night Dorothy and Toto and
the Lion were tired, and lay down upon the grass and fell asleep, with
the Woodman and the Scarecrow keeping watch.

Now the Wicked Witch of the West had but one eye, yet that was as
powerful as a telescope, and could see everywhere.  So, as she sat in
the door of her castle, she happened to look around and saw Dorothy
lying asleep, with her friends all about her.  They were a long
distance off, but the Wicked Witch was angry to find them in her
country; so she blew upon a silver whistle that hung around her neck.

At once there came running to her from all directions a pack of great
wolves.  They had long legs and fierce eyes and sharp teeth.

"Go to those people," said the Witch, "and tear them to pieces."

"Are you not going to make them your slaves?" asked the leader of the
wolves.

"No," she answered, "one is of tin, and one of straw; one is a girl and
another a Lion.  None of them is fit to work, so you may tear them into
small pieces."

"Very well," said the wolf, and he dashed away at full speed, followed
by the others.

It was lucky the Scarecrow and the Woodman were wide awake and heard
the wolves coming.

"This is my fight," said the Woodman, "so get behind me and I will meet
them as they come."

He seized his axe, which he had made very sharp, and as the leader of
the wolves came on the Tin Woodman swung his arm and chopped the wolf's
head from its body, so that it immediately died.  As soon as he could
raise his axe another wolf came up, and he also fell under the sharp
edge of the Tin Woodman's weapon.  There were forty wolves, and forty
times a wolf was killed, so that at last they all lay dead in a heap
before the Woodman.

Then he put down his axe and sat beside the Scarecrow, who said, "It
was a good fight, friend."

They waited until Dorothy awoke the next morning.  The little girl was
quite frightened when she saw the great pile of shaggy wolves, but the
Tin Woodman told her all.  She thanked him for saving them and sat down
to breakfast, after which they started again upon their journey.

Now this same morning the Wicked Witch came to the door of her castle
and looked out with her one eye that could see far off.  She saw all
her wolves lying dead, and the strangers still traveling through her
country.  This made her angrier than before, and she blew her silver
whistle twice.

Straightway a great flock of wild crows came flying toward her, enough
to darken the sky.

And the Wicked Witch said to the King Crow, "Fly at once to the
strangers; peck out their eyes and tear them to pieces."

The wild crows flew in one great flock toward Dorothy and her
companions.  When the little girl saw them coming she was afraid.

But the Scarecrow said, "This is my battle, so lie down beside me and
you will not be harmed."

So they all lay upon the ground except the Scarecrow, and he stood up
and stretched out his arms.  And when the crows saw him they were
frightened, as these birds always are by scarecrows, and did not dare
to come any nearer.  But the King Crow said:

"It is only a stuffed man.  I will peck his eyes out."

The King Crow flew at the Scarecrow, who caught it by the head and
twisted its neck until it died.  And then another crow flew at him, and
the Scarecrow twisted its neck also.  There were forty crows, and forty
times the Scarecrow twisted a neck, until at last all were lying dead
beside him.  Then he called to his companions to rise, and again they
went upon their journey.

When the Wicked Witch looked out again and saw all her crows lying in a
heap, she got into a terrible rage, and blew three times upon her
silver whistle.

Forthwith there was heard a great buzzing in the air, and a swarm of
black bees came flying toward her.

"Go to the strangers and sting them to death!" commanded the Witch, and
the bees turned and flew rapidly until they came to where Dorothy and
her friends were walking.  But the Woodman had seen them coming, and
the Scarecrow had decided what to do.

"Take out my straw and scatter it over the little girl and the dog and
the Lion," he said to the Woodman, "and the bees cannot sting them."
This the Woodman did, and as Dorothy lay close beside the Lion and held
Toto in her arms, the straw covered them entirely.

The bees came and found no one but the Woodman to sting, so they flew
at him and broke off all their stings against the tin, without hurting
the Woodman at all.  And as bees cannot live when their stings are
broken that was the end of the black bees, and they lay scattered thick
about the Woodman, like little heaps of fine coal.

Then Dorothy and the Lion got up, and the girl helped the Tin Woodman
put the straw back into the Scarecrow again, until he was as good as
ever.  So they started upon their journey once more.

The Wicked Witch was so angry when she saw her black bees in little
heaps like fine coal that she stamped her foot and tore her hair and
gnashed her teeth.  And then she called a dozen of her slaves, who were
the Winkies, and gave them sharp spears, telling them to go to the
strangers and destroy them.

The Winkies were not a brave people, but they had to do as they were
told.  So they marched away until they came near to Dorothy.  Then the
Lion gave a great roar and sprang towards them, and the poor Winkies
were so frightened that they ran back as fast as they could.

When they returned to the castle the Wicked Witch beat them well with a
strap, and sent them back to their work, after which she sat down to
think what she should do next.  She could not understand how all her
plans to destroy these strangers had failed; but she was a powerful
Witch, as well as a wicked one, and she soon made up her mind how to
act.

There was, in her cupboard, a Golden Cap, with a circle of diamonds and
rubies running round it.  This Golden Cap had a charm.  Whoever owned
it could call three times upon the Winged Monkeys, who would obey any
order they were given.  But no person could command these strange
creatures more than three times.  Twice already the Wicked Witch had
used the charm of the Cap.  Once was when she had made the Winkies her
slaves, and set herself to rule over their country.  The Winged Monkeys
had helped her do this.  The second time was when she had fought
against the Great Oz himself, and driven him out of the land of the
West.  The Winged Monkeys had also helped her in doing this.  Only once
more could she use this Golden Cap, for which reason she did not like
to do so until all her other powers were exhausted.  But now that her
fierce wolves and her wild crows and her stinging bees were gone, and
her slaves had been scared away by the Cowardly Lion, she saw there was
only one way left to destroy Dorothy and her friends.

So the Wicked Witch took the Golden Cap from her cupboard and placed it
upon her head.  Then she stood upon her left foot and said slowly:

"Ep-pe, pep-pe, kak-ke!"

Next she stood upon her right foot and said:

"Hil-lo, hol-lo, hel-lo!"

After this she stood upon both feet and cried in a loud voice:

"Ziz-zy, zuz-zy, zik!"

Now the charm began to work.  The sky was darkened, and a low rumbling
sound was heard in the air.  There was a rushing of many wings, a great
chattering and laughing, and the sun came out of the dark sky to show
the Wicked Witch surrounded by a crowd of monkeys, each with a pair of
immense and powerful wings on his shoulders.

One, much bigger than the others, seemed to be their leader.  He flew
close to the Witch and said, "You have called us for the third and last
time.  What do you command?"

"Go to the strangers who are within my land and destroy them all except
the Lion," said the Wicked Witch.  "Bring that beast to me, for I have
a mind to harness him like a horse, and make him work."

"Your commands shall be obeyed," said the leader.  Then, with a great
deal of chattering and noise, the Winged Monkeys flew away to the place
where Dorothy and her friends were walking.

Some of the Monkeys seized the Tin Woodman and carried him through the
air until they were over a country thickly covered with sharp rocks.
Here they dropped the poor Woodman, who fell a great distance to the
rocks, where he lay so battered and dented that he could neither move
nor groan.

Others of the Monkeys caught the Scarecrow, and with their long fingers
pulled all of the straw out of his clothes and head.  They made his hat
and boots and clothes into a small bundle and threw it into the top
branches of a tall tree.

The remaining Monkeys threw pieces of stout rope around the Lion and
wound many coils about his body and head and legs, until he was unable
to bite or scratch or struggle in any way.  Then they lifted him up and
flew away with him to the Witch's castle, where he was placed in a
small yard with a high iron fence around it, so that he could not
escape.

But Dorothy they did not harm at all.  She stood, with Toto in her
arms, watching the sad fate of her comrades and thinking it would soon
be her turn.  The leader of the Winged Monkeys flew up to her, his
long, hairy arms stretched out and his ugly face grinning terribly; but
he saw the mark of the Good Witch's kiss upon her forehead and stopped
short, motioning the others not to touch her.

"We dare not harm this little girl," he said to them, "for she is
protected by the Power of Good, and that is greater than the Power of
Evil.  All we can do is to carry her to the castle of the Wicked Witch
and leave her there."

So, carefully and gently, they lifted Dorothy in their arms and carried
her swiftly through the air until they came to the castle, where they
set her down upon the front doorstep.  Then the leader said to the
Witch:

"We have obeyed you as far as we were able.  The Tin Woodman and the
Scarecrow are destroyed, and the Lion is tied up in your yard.  The
little girl we dare not harm, nor the dog she carries in her arms.
Your power over our band is now ended, and you will never see us again."

Then all the Winged Monkeys, with much laughing and chattering and
noise, flew into the air and were soon out of sight.

The Wicked Witch was both surprised and worried when she saw the mark
on Dorothy's forehead, for she knew well that neither the Winged
Monkeys nor she, herself, dare hurt the girl in any way.  She looked
down at Dorothy's feet, and seeing the Silver Shoes, began to tremble
with fear, for she knew what a powerful charm belonged to them.  At
first the Witch was tempted to run away from Dorothy; but she happened
to look into the child's eyes and saw how simple the soul behind them
was, and that the little girl did not know of the wonderful power the
Silver Shoes gave her.  So the Wicked Witch laughed to herself, and
thought, "I can still make her my slave, for she does not know how to
use her power." Then she said to Dorothy, harshly and severely:

"Come with me; and see that you mind everything I tell you, for if you
do not I will make an end of you, as I did of the Tin Woodman and the
Scarecrow."

Dorothy followed her through many of the beautiful rooms in her castle
until they came to the kitchen, where the Witch bade her clean the pots
and kettles and sweep the floor and keep the fire fed with wood.

Dorothy went to work meekly, with her mind made up to work as hard as
she could; for she was glad the Wicked Witch had decided not to kill
her.

With Dorothy hard at work, the Witch thought she would go into the
courtyard and harness the Cowardly Lion like a horse; it would amuse
her, she was sure, to make him draw her chariot whenever she wished to
go to drive.  But as she opened the gate the Lion gave a loud roar and
bounded at her so fiercely that the Witch was afraid, and ran out and
shut the gate again.

"If I cannot harness you," said the Witch to the Lion, speaking through
the bars of the gate, "I can starve you.  You shall have nothing to eat
until you do as I wish."

So after that she took no food to the imprisoned Lion; but every day
she came to the gate at noon and asked, "Are you ready to be harnessed
like a horse?"

And the Lion would answer, "No.  If you come in this yard, I will bite
you."

The reason the Lion did not have to do as the Witch wished was that
every night, while the woman was asleep, Dorothy carried him food from
the cupboard.  After he had eaten he would lie down on his bed of
straw, and Dorothy would lie beside him and put her head on his soft,
shaggy mane, while they talked of their troubles and tried to plan some
way to escape.  But they could find no way to get out of the castle,
for it was constantly guarded by the yellow Winkies, who were the
slaves of the Wicked Witch and too afraid of her not to do as she told
them.

The girl had to work hard during the day, and often the Witch
threatened to beat her with the same old umbrella she always carried in
her hand.  But, in truth, she did not dare to strike Dorothy, because
of the mark upon her forehead.  The child did not know this, and was
full of fear for herself and Toto.  Once the Witch struck Toto a blow
with her umbrella and the brave little dog flew at her and bit her leg
in return.  The Witch did not bleed where she was bitten, for she was
so wicked that the blood in her had dried up many years before.

Dorothy's life became very sad as she grew to understand that it would
be harder than ever to get back to Kansas and Aunt Em again.  Sometimes
she would cry bitterly for hours, with Toto sitting at her feet and
looking into her face, whining dismally to show how sorry he was for
his little mistress.  Toto did not really care whether he was in Kansas
or the Land of Oz so long as Dorothy was with him; but he knew the
little girl was unhappy, and that made him unhappy too.

Now the Wicked Witch had a great longing to have for her own the Silver
Shoes which the girl always wore.  Her bees and her crows and her
wolves were lying in heaps and drying up, and she had used up all the
power of the Golden Cap; but if she could only get hold of the Silver
Shoes, they would give her more power than all the other things she had
lost.  She watched Dorothy carefully, to see if she ever took off her
shoes, thinking she might steal them.  But the child was so proud of
her pretty shoes that she never took them off except at night and when
she took her bath.  The Witch was too much afraid of the dark to dare
go in Dorothy's room at night to take the shoes, and her dread of water
was greater than her fear of the dark, so she never came near when
Dorothy was bathing.  Indeed, the old Witch never touched water, nor
ever let water touch her in any way.

But the wicked creature was very cunning, and she finally thought of a
trick that would give her what she wanted.  She placed a bar of iron in
the middle of the kitchen floor, and then by her magic arts made the
iron invisible to human eyes.  So that when Dorothy walked across the
floor she stumbled over the bar, not being able to see it, and fell at
full length.  She was not much hurt, but in her fall one of the Silver
Shoes came off; and before she could reach it, the Witch had snatched
it away and put it on her own skinny foot.

The wicked woman was greatly pleased with the success of her trick, for
as long as she had one of the shoes she owned half the power of their
charm, and Dorothy could not use it against her, even had she known how
to do so.

The little girl, seeing she had lost one of her pretty shoes, grew
angry, and said to the Witch, "Give me back my shoe!"

"I will not," retorted the Witch, "for it is now my shoe, and not
yours."

"You are a wicked creature!" cried Dorothy.  "You have no right to take
my shoe from me."

"I shall keep it, just the same," said the Witch, laughing at her, "and
someday I shall get the other one from you, too."

This made Dorothy so very angry that she picked up the bucket of water
that stood near and dashed it over the Witch, wetting her from head to
foot.

Instantly the wicked woman gave a loud cry of fear, and then, as
Dorothy looked at her in wonder, the Witch began to shrink and fall
away.

"See what you have done!" she screamed.  "In a minute I shall melt
away."

"I'm very sorry, indeed," said Dorothy, who was truly frightened to see
the Witch actually melting away like brown sugar before her very eyes.

"Didn't you know water would be the end of me?" asked the Witch, in a
wailing, despairing voice.

"Of course not," answered Dorothy.  "How should I?"

"Well, in a few minutes I shall be all melted, and you will have the
castle to yourself.  I have been wicked in my day, but I never thought
a little girl like you would ever be able to melt me and end my wicked
deeds.  Look out--here I go!"

With these words the Witch fell down in a brown, melted, shapeless mass
and began to spread over the clean boards of the kitchen floor.  Seeing
that she had really melted away to nothing, Dorothy drew another bucket
of water and threw it over the mess.  She then swept it all out the
door.  After picking out the silver shoe, which was all that was left
of the old woman, she cleaned and dried it with a cloth, and put it on
her foot again.  Then, being at last free to do as she chose, she ran
out to the courtyard to tell the Lion that the Wicked Witch of the West
had come to an end, and that they were no longer prisoners in a strange
land.




13.  The Rescue


The Cowardly Lion was much pleased to hear that the Wicked Witch had
been melted by a bucket of water, and Dorothy at once unlocked the gate
of his prison and set him free.  They went in together to the castle,
where Dorothy's first act was to call all the Winkies together and tell
them that they were no longer slaves.

There was great rejoicing among the yellow Winkies, for they had been
made to work hard during many years for the Wicked Witch, who had
always treated them with great cruelty.  They kept this day as a
holiday, then and ever after, and spent the time in feasting and
dancing.

"If our friends, the Scarecrow and the Tin Woodman, were only with us,"
said the Lion, "I should be quite happy."

"Don't you suppose we could rescue them?" asked the girl anxiously.

"We can try," answered the Lion.

So they called the yellow Winkies and asked them if they would help to
rescue their friends, and the Winkies said that they would be delighted
to do all in their power for Dorothy, who had set them free from
bondage.  So she chose a number of the Winkies who looked as if they
knew the most, and they all started away.  They traveled that day and
part of the next until they came to the rocky plain where the Tin
Woodman lay, all battered and bent.  His axe was near him, but the
blade was rusted and the handle broken off short.

The Winkies lifted him tenderly in their arms, and carried him back to
the Yellow Castle again, Dorothy shedding a few tears by the way at the
sad plight of her old friend, and the Lion looking sober and sorry.
When they reached the castle Dorothy said to the Winkies:

"Are any of your people tinsmiths?"

"Oh, yes.  Some of us are very good tinsmiths," they told her.

"Then bring them to me," she said.  And when the tinsmiths came,
bringing with them all their tools in baskets, she inquired, "Can you
straighten out those dents in the Tin Woodman, and bend him back into
shape again, and solder him together where he is broken?"

The tinsmiths looked the Woodman over carefully and then answered that
they thought they could mend him so he would be as good as ever.  So
they set to work in one of the big yellow rooms of the castle and
worked for three days and four nights, hammering and twisting and
bending and soldering and polishing and pounding at the legs and body
and head of the Tin Woodman, until at last he was straightened out into
his old form, and his joints worked as well as ever.  To be sure, there
were several patches on him, but the tinsmiths did a good job, and as
the Woodman was not a vain man he did not mind the patches at all.

When, at last, he walked into Dorothy's room and thanked her for
rescuing him, he was so pleased that he wept tears of joy, and Dorothy
had to wipe every tear carefully from his face with her apron, so his
joints would not be rusted.  At the same time her own tears fell thick
and fast at the joy of meeting her old friend again, and these tears
did not need to be wiped away.  As for the Lion, he wiped his eyes so
often with the tip of his tail that it became quite wet, and he was
obliged to go out into the courtyard and hold it in the sun till it
dried.

"If we only had the Scarecrow with us again," said the Tin Woodman,
when Dorothy had finished telling him everything that had happened, "I
should be quite happy."

"We must try to find him," said the girl.

So she called the Winkies to help her, and they walked all that day and
part of the next until they came to the tall tree in the branches of
which the Winged Monkeys had tossed the Scarecrow's clothes.

It was a very tall tree, and the trunk was so smooth that no one could
climb it; but the Woodman said at once, "I'll chop it down, and then we
can get the Scarecrow's clothes."

Now while the tinsmiths had been at work mending the Woodman himself,
another of the Winkies, who was a goldsmith, had made an axe-handle of
solid gold and fitted it to the Woodman's axe, instead of the old
broken handle.  Others polished the blade until all the rust was
removed and it glistened like burnished silver.

As soon as he had spoken, the Tin Woodman began to chop, and in a short
time the tree fell over with a crash, whereupon the Scarecrow's clothes
fell out of the branches and rolled off on the ground.

Dorothy picked them up and had the Winkies carry them back to the
castle, where they were stuffed with nice, clean straw; and behold!
here was the Scarecrow, as good as ever, thanking them over and over
again for saving him.

Now that they were reunited, Dorothy and her friends spent a few happy
days at the Yellow Castle, where they found everything they needed to
make them comfortable.

But one day the girl thought of Aunt Em, and said, "We must go back to
Oz, and claim his promise."

"Yes," said the Woodman, "at last I shall get my heart."

"And I shall get my brains," added the Scarecrow joyfully.

"And I shall get my courage," said the Lion thoughtfully.

"And I shall get back to Kansas," cried Dorothy, clapping her hands.
"Oh, let us start for the Emerald City tomorrow!"

This they decided to do.  The next day they called the Winkies together
and bade them good-bye.  The Winkies were sorry to have them go, and
they had grown so fond of the Tin Woodman that they begged him to stay
and rule over them and the Yellow Land of the West.  Finding they were
determined to go, the Winkies gave Toto and the Lion each a golden
collar; and to Dorothy they presented a beautiful bracelet studded with
diamonds; and to the Scarecrow they gave a gold-headed walking stick,
to keep him from stumbling; and to the Tin Woodman they offered a
silver oil-can, inlaid with gold and set with precious jewels.

Every one of the travelers made the Winkies a pretty speech in return,
and all shook hands with them until their arms ached.

Dorothy went to the Witch's cupboard to fill her basket with food for
the journey, and there she saw the Golden Cap.  She tried it on her own
head and found that it fitted her exactly.  She did not know anything
about the charm of the Golden Cap, but she saw that it was pretty, so
she made up her mind to wear it and carry her sunbonnet in the basket.

Then, being prepared for the journey, they all started for the Emerald
City; and the Winkies gave them three cheers and many good wishes to
carry with them.




14.  The Winged Monkeys


You will remember there was no road--not even a pathway--between the
castle of the Wicked Witch and the Emerald City.  When the four
travelers went in search of the Witch she had seen them coming, and so
sent the Winged Monkeys to bring them to her.  It was much harder to
find their way back through the big fields of buttercups and yellow
daisies than it was being carried.  They knew, of course, they must go
straight east, toward the rising sun; and they started off in the right
way.  But at noon, when the sun was over their heads, they did not know
which was east and which was west, and that was the reason they were
lost in the great fields.  They kept on walking, however, and at night
the moon came out and shone brightly.  So they lay down among the sweet
smelling yellow flowers and slept soundly until morning--all but the
Scarecrow and the Tin Woodman.

The next morning the sun was behind a cloud, but they started on, as if
they were quite sure which way they were going.

"If we walk far enough," said Dorothy, "I am sure we shall sometime
come to some place."

But day by day passed away, and they still saw nothing before them but
the scarlet fields.  The Scarecrow began to grumble a bit.

"We have surely lost our way," he said, "and unless we find it again in
time to reach the Emerald City, I shall never get my brains."

"Nor I my heart," declared the Tin Woodman.  "It seems to me I can
scarcely wait till I get to Oz, and you must admit this is a very long
journey."

"You see," said the Cowardly Lion, with a whimper, "I haven't the
courage to keep tramping forever, without getting anywhere at all."

Then Dorothy lost heart.  She sat down on the grass and looked at her
companions, and they sat down and looked at her, and Toto found that
for the first time in his life he was too tired to chase a butterfly
that flew past his head.  So he put out his tongue and panted and
looked at Dorothy as if to ask what they should do next.

"Suppose we call the field mice," she suggested.  "They could probably
tell us the way to the Emerald City."

"To be sure they could," cried the Scarecrow.  "Why didn't we think of
that before?"

Dorothy blew the little whistle she had always carried about her neck
since the Queen of the Mice had given it to her.  In a few minutes they
heard the pattering of tiny feet, and many of the small gray mice came
running up to her.  Among them was the Queen herself, who asked, in her
squeaky little voice:

"What can I do for my friends?"

"We have lost our way," said Dorothy.  "Can you tell us where the
Emerald City is?"

"Certainly," answered the Queen; "but it is a great way off, for you
have had it at your backs all this time."  Then she noticed Dorothy's
Golden Cap, and said, "Why don't you use the charm of the Cap, and call
the Winged Monkeys to you?  They will carry you to the City of Oz in
less than an hour."

"I didn't know there was a charm," answered Dorothy, in surprise.
"What is it?"

"It is written inside the Golden Cap," replied the Queen of the Mice.
"But if you are going to call the Winged Monkeys we must run away, for
they are full of mischief and think it great fun to plague us."

"Won't they hurt me?" asked the girl anxiously.

"Oh, no.  They must obey the wearer of the Cap.  Good-bye!" And she
scampered out of sight, with all the mice hurrying after her.

Dorothy looked inside the Golden Cap and saw some words written upon
the lining.  These, she thought, must be the charm, so she read the
directions carefully and put the Cap upon her head.

"Ep-pe, pep-pe, kak-ke!" she said, standing on her left foot.

"What did you say?" asked the Scarecrow, who did not know what she was
doing.

"Hil-lo, hol-lo, hel-lo!"  Dorothy went on, standing this time on her
right foot.

"Hello!" replied the Tin Woodman calmly.

"Ziz-zy, zuz-zy, zik!" said Dorothy, who was now standing on both feet.
This ended the saying of the charm, and they heard a great chattering
and flapping of wings, as the band of Winged Monkeys flew up to them.

The King bowed low before Dorothy, and asked, "What is your command?"

"We wish to go to the Emerald City," said the child, "and we have lost
our way."

"We will carry you," replied the King, and no sooner had he spoken than
two of the Monkeys caught Dorothy in their arms and flew away with her.
Others took the Scarecrow and the Woodman and the Lion, and one little
Monkey seized Toto and flew after them, although the dog tried hard to
bite him.

The Scarecrow and the Tin Woodman were rather frightened at first, for
they remembered how badly the Winged Monkeys had treated them before;
but they saw that no harm was intended, so they rode through the air
quite cheerfully, and had a fine time looking at the pretty gardens and
woods far below them.

Dorothy found herself riding easily between two of the biggest Monkeys,
one of them the King himself.  They had made a chair of their hands and
were careful not to hurt her.

"Why do you have to obey the charm of the Golden Cap?" she asked.

"That is a long story," answered the King, with a Winged laugh; "but as
we have a long journey before us, I will pass the time by telling you
about it, if you wish."

"I shall be glad to hear it," she replied.

"Once," began the leader, "we were a free people, living happily in the
great forest, flying from tree to tree, eating nuts and fruit, and
doing just as we pleased without calling anybody master.  Perhaps some
of us were rather too full of mischief at times, flying down to pull
the tails of the animals that had no wings, chasing birds, and throwing
nuts at the people who walked in the forest.  But we were careless and
happy and full of fun, and enjoyed every minute of the day.  This was
many years ago, long before Oz came out of the clouds to rule over this
land.

"There lived here then, away at the North, a beautiful princess, who
was also a powerful sorceress.  All her magic was used to help the
people, and she was never known to hurt anyone who was good.  Her name
was Gayelette, and she lived in a handsome palace built from great
blocks of ruby.  Everyone loved her, but her greatest sorrow was that
she could find no one to love in return, since all the men were much
too stupid and ugly to mate with one so beautiful and wise.  At last,
however, she found a boy who was handsome and manly and wise beyond his
years.  Gayelette made up her mind that when he grew to be a man she
would make him her husband, so she took him to her ruby palace and used
all her magic powers to make him as strong and good and lovely as any
woman could wish.  When he grew to manhood, Quelala, as he was called,
was said to be the best and wisest man in all the land, while his manly
beauty was so great that Gayelette loved him dearly, and hastened to
make everything ready for the wedding.

"My grandfather was at that time the King of the Winged Monkeys which
lived in the forest near Gayelette's palace, and the old fellow loved a
joke better than a good dinner.  One day, just before the wedding, my
grandfather was flying out with his band when he saw Quelala walking
beside the river.  He was dressed in a rich costume of pink silk and
purple velvet, and my grandfather thought he would see what he could
do.  At his word the band flew down and seized Quelala, carried him in
their arms until they were over the middle of the river, and then
dropped him into the water.

"`Swim out, my fine fellow,' cried my grandfather, `and see if the
water has spotted your clothes.'  Quelala was much too wise not to
swim, and he was not in the least spoiled by all his good fortune.  He
laughed, when he came to the top of the water, and swam in to shore.
But when Gayelette came running out to him she found his silks and
velvet all ruined by the river.

"The princess was angry, and she knew, of course, who did it.  She had
all the Winged Monkeys brought before her, and she said at first that
their wings should be tied and they should be treated as they had
treated Quelala, and dropped in the river.  But my grandfather pleaded
hard, for he knew the Monkeys would drown in the river with their wings
tied, and Quelala said a kind word for them also; so that Gayelette
finally spared them, on condition that the Winged Monkeys should ever
after do three times the bidding of the owner of the Golden Cap.  This
Cap had been made for a wedding present to Quelala, and it is said to
have cost the princess half her kingdom.  Of course my grandfather and
all the other Monkeys at once agreed to the condition, and that is how
it happens that we are three times the slaves of the owner of the
Golden Cap, whosoever he may be."

"And what became of them?" asked Dorothy, who had been greatly
interested in the story.

"Quelala being the first owner of the Golden Cap," replied the Monkey,
"he was the first to lay his wishes upon us.  As his bride could not
bear the sight of us, he called us all to him in the forest after he
had married her and ordered us always to keep where she could never
again set eyes on a Winged Monkey, which we were glad to do, for we
were all afraid of her.

"This was all we ever had to do until the Golden Cap fell into the
hands of the Wicked Witch of the West, who made us enslave the Winkies,
and afterward drive Oz himself out of the Land of the West.  Now the
Golden Cap is yours, and three times you have the right to lay your
wishes upon us."

As the Monkey King finished his story Dorothy looked down and saw the
green, shining walls of the Emerald City before them.  She wondered at
the rapid flight of the Monkeys, but was glad the journey was over.
The strange creatures set the travelers down carefully before the gate
of the City, the King bowed low to Dorothy, and then flew swiftly away,
followed by all his band.

"That was a good ride," said the little girl.

"Yes, and a quick way out of our troubles," replied the Lion.  "How
lucky it was you brought away that wonderful Cap!"




  15.  The Discovery of Oz, the Terrible


The four travelers walked up to the great gate of Emerald City and rang
the bell.  After ringing several times, it was opened by the same
Guardian of the Gates they had met before.

"What! are you back again?" he asked, in surprise.

"Do you not see us?" answered the Scarecrow.

"But I thought you had gone to visit the Wicked Witch of the West."

"We did visit her," said the Scarecrow.

"And she let you go again?" asked the man, in wonder.

"She could not help it, for she is melted," explained the Scarecrow.

"Melted!  Well, that is good news, indeed," said the man.  "Who melted
her?"

"It was Dorothy," said the Lion gravely.

"Good gracious!" exclaimed the man, and he bowed very low indeed before
her.

Then he led them into his little room and locked the spectacles from
the great box on all their eyes, just as he had done before.  Afterward
they passed on through the gate into the Emerald City.  When the people
heard from the Guardian of the Gates that Dorothy had melted the Wicked
Witch of the West, they all gathered around the travelers and followed
them in a great crowd to the Palace of Oz.

The soldier with the green whiskers was still on guard before the door,
but he let them in at once, and they were again met by the beautiful
green girl, who showed each of them to their old rooms at once, so they
might rest until the Great Oz was ready to receive them.

The soldier had the news carried straight to Oz that Dorothy and the
other travelers had come back again, after destroying the Wicked Witch;
but Oz made no reply.  They thought the Great Wizard would send for
them at once, but he did not.  They had no word from him the next day,
nor the next, nor the next.  The waiting was tiresome and wearing, and
at last they grew vexed that Oz should treat them in so poor a fashion,
after sending them to undergo hardships and slavery.  So the Scarecrow
at last asked the green girl to take another message to Oz, saying if
he did not let them in to see him at once they would call the Winged
Monkeys to help them, and find out whether he kept his promises or not.
When the Wizard was given this message he was so frightened that he
sent word for them to come to the Throne Room at four minutes after
nine o'clock the next morning.  He had once met the Winged Monkeys in
the Land of the West, and he did not wish to meet them again.

The four travelers passed a sleepless night, each thinking of the gift
Oz had promised to bestow on him.  Dorothy fell asleep only once, and
then she dreamed she was in Kansas, where Aunt Em was telling her how
glad she was to have her little girl at home again.

Promptly at nine o'clock the next morning the green-whiskered soldier
came to them, and four minutes later they all went into the Throne Room
of the Great Oz.

Of course each one of them expected to see the Wizard in the shape he
had taken before, and all were greatly surprised when they looked about
and saw no one at all in the room.  They kept close to the door and
closer to one another, for the stillness of the empty room was more
dreadful than any of the forms they had seen Oz take.

Presently they heard a solemn Voice, that seemed to come from somewhere
near the top of the great dome, and it said:

"I am Oz, the Great and Terrible.  Why do you seek me?"

They looked again in every part of the room, and then, seeing no one,
Dorothy asked, "Where are you?"

"I am everywhere," answered the Voice, "but to the eyes of common
mortals I am invisible.  I will now seat myself upon my throne, that
you may converse with me."  Indeed, the Voice seemed just then to come
straight from the throne itself; so they walked toward it and stood in
a row while Dorothy said:

"We have come to claim our promise, O Oz."

"What promise?" asked Oz.

"You promised to send me back to Kansas when the Wicked Witch was
destroyed," said the girl.

"And you promised to give me brains," said the Scarecrow.

"And you promised to give me a heart," said the Tin Woodman.

"And you promised to give me courage," said the Cowardly Lion.

"Is the Wicked Witch really destroyed?" asked the Voice, and Dorothy
thought it trembled a little.

"Yes," she answered, "I melted her with a bucket of water."

"Dear me," said the Voice, "how sudden!  Well, come to me tomorrow, for
I must have time to think it over."

"You've had plenty of time already," said the Tin Woodman angrily.

"We shan't wait a day longer," said the Scarecrow.

"You must keep your promises to us!" exclaimed Dorothy.

The Lion thought it might be as well to frighten the Wizard, so he gave
a large, loud roar, which was so fierce and dreadful that Toto jumped
away from him in alarm and tipped over the screen that stood in a
corner.  As it fell with a crash they looked that way, and the next
moment all of them were filled with wonder.  For they saw, standing in
just the spot the screen had hidden, a little old man, with a bald head
and a wrinkled face, who seemed to be as much surprised as they were.
The Tin Woodman, raising his axe, rushed toward the little man and
cried out, "Who are you?"

"I am Oz, the Great and Terrible," said the little man, in a trembling
voice.  "But don't strike me--please don't--and I'll do anything you
want me to."

Our friends looked at him in surprise and dismay.

"I thought Oz was a great Head," said Dorothy.

"And I thought Oz was a lovely Lady," said the Scarecrow.

"And I thought Oz was a terrible Beast," said the Tin Woodman.

"And I thought Oz was a Ball of Fire," exclaimed the Lion.

"No, you are all wrong," said the little man meekly.  "I have been
making believe."

"Making believe!" cried Dorothy.  "Are you not a Great Wizard?"

"Hush, my dear," he said.  "Don't speak so loud, or you will be
overheard--and I should be ruined.  I'm supposed to be a Great Wizard."

"And aren't you?" she asked.

"Not a bit of it, my dear; I'm just a common man."

"You're more than that," said the Scarecrow, in a grieved tone; "you're
a humbug."

"Exactly so!" declared the little man, rubbing his hands together as if
it pleased him.  "I am a humbug."

"But this is terrible," said the Tin Woodman.  "How shall I ever get my
heart?"

"Or I my courage?" asked the Lion.

"Or I my brains?" wailed the Scarecrow, wiping the tears from his eyes
with his coat sleeve.

"My dear friends," said Oz, "I pray you not to speak of these little
things.  Think of me, and the terrible trouble I'm in at being found
out."

"Doesn't anyone else know you're a humbug?" asked Dorothy.

"No one knows it but you four--and myself," replied Oz.  "I have fooled
everyone so long that I thought I should never be found out.  It was a
great mistake my ever letting you into the Throne Room.  Usually I will
not see even my subjects, and so they believe I am something terrible."

"But, I don't understand," said Dorothy, in bewilderment.  "How was it
that you appeared to me as a great Head?"

"That was one of my tricks," answered Oz.  "Step this way, please, and
I will tell you all about it."

He led the way to a small chamber in the rear of the Throne Room, and
they all followed him.  He pointed to one corner, in which lay the
great Head, made out of many thicknesses of paper, and with a carefully
painted face.

"This I hung from the ceiling by a wire," said Oz.  "I stood behind the
screen and pulled a thread, to make the eyes move and the mouth open."

"But how about the voice?" she inquired.

"Oh, I am a ventriloquist," said the little man.  "I can throw the
sound of my voice wherever I wish, so that you thought it was coming
out of the Head.  Here are the other things I used to deceive you."  He
showed the Scarecrow the dress and the mask he had worn when he seemed
to be the lovely Lady.  And the Tin Woodman saw that his terrible Beast
was nothing but a lot of skins, sewn together, with slats to keep their
sides out.  As for the Ball of Fire, the false Wizard had hung that
also from the ceiling.  It was really a ball of cotton, but when oil
was poured upon it the ball burned fiercely.

"Really," said the Scarecrow, "you ought to be ashamed of yourself for
being such a humbug."

"I am--I certainly am," answered the little man sorrowfully; "but it
was the only thing I could do.  Sit down, please, there are plenty of
chairs; and I will tell you my story."

So they sat down and listened while he told the following tale.

"I was born in Omaha--"

"Why, that isn't very far from Kansas!" cried Dorothy.

"No, but it's farther from here," he said, shaking his head at her
sadly.  "When I grew up I became a ventriloquist, and at that I was
very well trained by a great master.  I can imitate any kind of a bird
or beast."  Here he mewed so like a kitten that Toto pricked up his
ears and looked everywhere to see where she was.  "After a time,"
continued Oz, "I tired of that, and became a balloonist."

"What is that?" asked Dorothy.

"A man who goes up in a balloon on circus day, so as to draw a crowd of
people together and get them to pay to see the circus," he explained.

"Oh," she said, "I know."

"Well, one day I went up in a balloon and the ropes got twisted, so
that I couldn't come down again.  It went way up above the clouds, so
far that a current of air struck it and carried it many, many miles
away.  For a day and a night I traveled through the air, and on the
morning of the second day I awoke and found the balloon floating over a
strange and beautiful country.

"It came down gradually, and I was not hurt a bit.  But I found myself
in the midst of a strange people, who, seeing me come from the clouds,
thought I was a great Wizard.  Of course I let them think so, because
they were afraid of me, and promised to do anything I wished them to.

"Just to amuse myself, and keep the good people busy, I ordered them to
build this City, and my Palace; and they did it all willingly and well.
Then I thought, as the country was so green and beautiful, I would call
it the Emerald City; and to make the name fit better I put green
spectacles on all the people, so that everything they saw was green."

"But isn't everything here green?" asked Dorothy.

"No more than in any other city," replied Oz; "but when you wear green
spectacles, why of course everything you see looks green to you.  The
Emerald City was built a great many years ago, for I was a young man
when the balloon brought me here, and I am a very old man now.  But my
people have worn green glasses on their eyes so long that most of them
think it really is an Emerald City, and it certainly is a beautiful
place, abounding in jewels and precious metals, and every good thing
that is needed to make one happy.  I have been good to the people, and
they like me; but ever since this Palace was built, I have shut myself
up and would not see any of them.

"One of my greatest fears was the Witches, for while I had no magical
powers at all I soon found out that the Witches were really able to do
wonderful things.  There were four of them in this country, and they
ruled the people who live in the North and South and East and West.
Fortunately, the Witches of the North and South were good, and I knew
they would do me no harm; but the Witches of the East and West were
terribly wicked, and had they not thought I was more powerful than they
themselves, they would surely have destroyed me.  As it was, I lived in
deadly fear of them for many years; so you can imagine how pleased I
was when I heard your house had fallen on the Wicked Witch of the East.
When you came to me, I was willing to promise anything if you would
only do away with the other Witch; but, now that you have melted her, I
am ashamed to say that I cannot keep my promises."

"I think you are a very bad man," said Dorothy.

"Oh, no, my dear; I'm really a very good man, but I'm a very bad
Wizard, I must admit."

"Can't you give me brains?" asked the Scarecrow.

"You don't need them.  You are learning something every day.  A baby
has brains, but it doesn't know much.  Experience is the only thing
that brings knowledge, and the longer you are on earth the more
experience you are sure to get."

"That may all be true," said the Scarecrow, "but I shall be very
unhappy unless you give me brains."

The false Wizard looked at him carefully.

"Well," he said with a sigh, "I'm not much of a magician, as I said;
but if you will come to me tomorrow morning, I will stuff your head
with brains.  I cannot tell you how to use them, however; you must find
that out for yourself."

"Oh, thank you--thank you!" cried the Scarecrow.  "I'll find a way to
use them, never fear!"

"But how about my courage?" asked the Lion anxiously.

"You have plenty of courage, I am sure," answered Oz.  "All you need is
confidence in yourself.  There is no living thing that is not afraid
when it faces danger.  The True courage is in facing danger when you
are afraid, and that kind of courage you have in plenty."

"Perhaps I have, but I'm scared just the same," said the Lion.  "I
shall really be very unhappy unless you give me the sort of courage
that makes one forget he is afraid."

"Very well, I will give you that sort of courage tomorrow," replied Oz.

"How about my heart?" asked the Tin Woodman.

"Why, as for that," answered Oz, "I think you are wrong to want a
heart.  It makes most people unhappy.  If you only knew it, you are in
luck not to have a heart."

"That must be a matter of opinion," said the Tin Woodman.  "For my
part, I will bear all the unhappiness without a murmur, if you will
give me the heart."

"Very well," answered Oz meekly.  "Come to me tomorrow and you shall
have a heart.  I have played Wizard for so many years that I may as
well continue the part a little longer."

"And now," said Dorothy, "how am I to get back to Kansas?"

"We shall have to think about that," replied the little man.  "Give me
two or three days to consider the matter and I'll try to find a way to
carry you over the desert.  In the meantime you shall all be treated as
my guests, and while you live in the Palace my people will wait upon
you and obey your slightest wish.  There is only one thing I ask in
return for my help--such as it is.  You must keep my secret and tell no
one I am a humbug."

They agreed to say nothing of what they had learned, and went back to
their rooms in high spirits.  Even Dorothy had hope that "The Great and
Terrible Humbug," as she called him, would find a way to send her back
to Kansas, and if he did she was willing to forgive him everything.




  16.  The Magic Art of the Great Humbug


Next morning the Scarecrow said to his friends:

"Congratulate me.  I am going to Oz to get my brains at last.  When I
return I shall be as other men are."

"I have always liked you as you were," said Dorothy simply.

"It is kind of you to like a Scarecrow," he replied.  "But surely you
will think more of me when you hear the splendid thoughts my new brain
is going to turn out."  Then he said good-bye to them all in a cheerful
voice and went to the Throne Room, where he rapped upon the door.

"Come in," said Oz.

The Scarecrow went in and found the little man sitting down by the
window, engaged in deep thought.

"I have come for my brains," remarked the Scarecrow, a little uneasily.

"Oh, yes; sit down in that chair, please," replied Oz.  "You must
excuse me for taking your head off, but I shall have to do it in order
to put your brains in their proper place."

"That's all right," said the Scarecrow.  "You are quite welcome to take
my head off, as long as it will be a better one when you put it on
again."

So the Wizard unfastened his head and emptied out the straw.  Then he
entered the back room and took up a measure of bran, which he mixed
with a great many pins and needles.  Having shaken them together
thoroughly, he filled the top of the Scarecrow's head with the mixture
and stuffed the rest of the space with straw, to hold it in place.

When he had fastened the Scarecrow's head on his body again he said to
him, "Hereafter you will be a great man, for I have given you a lot of
bran-new brains."

The Scarecrow was both pleased and proud at the fulfillment of his
greatest wish, and having thanked Oz warmly he went back to his friends.

Dorothy looked at him curiously.  His head was quite bulged out at the
top with brains.

"How do you feel?" she asked.

"I feel wise indeed," he answered earnestly.  "When I get used to my
brains I shall know everything."

"Why are those needles and pins sticking out of your head?" asked the
Tin Woodman.

"That is proof that he is sharp," remarked the Lion.

"Well, I must go to Oz and get my heart," said the Woodman.  So he
walked to the Throne Room and knocked at the door.

"Come in," called Oz, and the Woodman entered and said, "I have come
for my heart."

"Very well," answered the little man.  "But I shall have to cut a hole
in your breast, so I can put your heart in the right place.  I hope it
won't hurt you."

"Oh, no," answered the Woodman.  "I shall not feel it at all."

So Oz brought a pair of tinsmith's shears and cut a small, square hole
in the left side of the Tin Woodman's breast.  Then, going to a chest
of drawers, he took out a pretty heart, made entirely of silk and
stuffed with sawdust.

"Isn't it a beauty?" he asked.

"It is, indeed!" replied the Woodman, who was greatly pleased.  "But is
it a kind heart?"

"Oh, very!" answered Oz.  He put the heart in the Woodman's breast and
then replaced the square of tin, soldering it neatly together where it
had been cut.

"There," said he; "now you have a heart that any man might be proud of.
I'm sorry I had to put a patch on your breast, but it really couldn't
be helped."

"Never mind the patch," exclaimed the happy Woodman.  "I am very
grateful to you, and shall never forget your kindness."

"Don't speak of it," replied Oz.

Then the Tin Woodman went back to his friends, who wished him every joy
on account of his good fortune.

The Lion now walked to the Throne Room and knocked at the door.

"Come in," said Oz.

"I have come for my courage," announced the Lion, entering the room.

"Very well," answered the little man; "I will get it for you."

He went to a cupboard and reaching up to a high shelf took down a
square green bottle, the contents of which he poured into a green-gold
dish, beautifully carved.  Placing this before the Cowardly Lion, who
sniffed at it as if he did not like it, the Wizard said:

"Drink."

"What is it?" asked the Lion.

"Well," answered Oz, "if it were inside of you, it would be courage.
You know, of course, that courage is always inside one; so that this
really cannot be called courage until you have swallowed it.  Therefore
I advise you to drink it as soon as possible."

The Lion hesitated no longer, but drank till the dish was empty.

"How do you feel now?" asked Oz.

"Full of courage," replied the Lion, who went joyfully back to his
friends to tell them of his good fortune.

Oz, left to himself, smiled to think of his success in giving the
Scarecrow and the Tin Woodman and the Lion exactly what they thought
they wanted.  "How can I help being a humbug," he said, "when all these
people make me do things that everybody knows can't be done?  It was
easy to make the Scarecrow and the Lion and the Woodman happy, because
they imagined I could do anything.  But it will take more than
imagination to carry Dorothy back to Kansas, and I'm sure I don't know
how it can be done."




17.  How the Balloon Was Launched


For three days Dorothy heard nothing from Oz.  These were sad days for
the little girl, although her friends were all quite happy and
contented.  The Scarecrow told them there were wonderful thoughts in
his head; but he would not say what they were because he knew no one
could understand them but himself.  When the Tin Woodman walked about
he felt his heart rattling around in his breast; and he told Dorothy he
had discovered it to be a kinder and more tender heart than the one he
had owned when he was made of flesh.  The Lion declared he was afraid
of nothing on earth, and would gladly face an army or a dozen of the
fierce Kalidahs.

Thus each of the little party was satisfied except Dorothy, who longed
more than ever to get back to Kansas.

On the fourth day, to her great joy, Oz sent for her, and when she
entered the Throne Room he greeted her pleasantly:

"Sit down, my dear; I think I have found the way to get you out of this
country."

"And back to Kansas?" she asked eagerly.

"Well, I'm not sure about Kansas," said Oz, "for I haven't the faintest
notion which way it lies.  But the first thing to do is to cross the
desert, and then it should be easy to find your way home."

"How can I cross the desert?" she inquired.

"Well, I'll tell you what I think," said the little man.  "You see,
when I came to this country it was in a balloon.  You also came through
the air, being carried by a cyclone.  So I believe the best way to get
across the desert will be through the air.  Now, it is quite beyond my
powers to make a cyclone; but I've been thinking the matter over, and I
believe I can make a balloon."

"How?" asked Dorothy.

"A balloon," said Oz, "is made of silk, which is coated with glue to
keep the gas in it.  I have plenty of silk in the Palace, so it will be
no trouble to make the balloon.  But in all this country there is no
gas to fill the balloon with, to make it float."

"If it won't float," remarked Dorothy, "it will be of no use to us."

"True," answered Oz.  "But there is another way to make it float, which
is to fill it with hot air.  Hot air isn't as good as gas, for if the
air should get cold the balloon would come down in the desert, and we
should be lost."

"We!" exclaimed the girl.  "Are you going with me?"

"Yes, of course," replied Oz.  "I am tired of being such a humbug.  If
I should go out of this Palace my people would soon discover I am not a
Wizard, and then they would be vexed with me for having deceived them.
So I have to stay shut up in these rooms all day, and it gets tiresome.
I'd much rather go back to Kansas with you and be in a circus again."

"I shall be glad to have your company," said Dorothy.

"Thank you," he answered.  "Now, if you will help me sew the silk
together, we will begin to work on our balloon."

So Dorothy took a needle and thread, and as fast as Oz cut the strips
of silk into proper shape the girl sewed them neatly together.  First
there was a strip of light green silk, then a strip of dark green and
then a strip of emerald green; for Oz had a fancy to make the balloon
in different shades of the color about them.  It took three days to sew
all the strips together, but when it was finished they had a big bag of
green silk more than twenty feet long.

Then Oz painted it on the inside with a coat of thin glue, to make it
airtight, after which he announced that the balloon was ready.

"But we must have a basket to ride in," he said.  So he sent the
soldier with the green whiskers for a big clothes basket, which he
fastened with many ropes to the bottom of the balloon.

When it was all ready, Oz sent word to his people that he was going to
make a visit to a great brother Wizard who lived in the clouds.  The
news spread rapidly throughout the city and everyone came to see the
wonderful sight.

Oz ordered the balloon carried out in front of the Palace, and the
people gazed upon it with much curiosity.  The Tin Woodman had chopped
a big pile of wood, and now he made a fire of it, and Oz held the
bottom of the balloon over the fire so that the hot air that arose from
it would be caught in the silken bag.  Gradually the balloon swelled
out and rose into the air, until finally the basket just touched the
ground.

Then Oz got into the basket and said to all the people in a loud voice:

"I am now going away to make a visit.  While I am gone the Scarecrow
will rule over you.  I command you to obey him as you would me."

The balloon was by this time tugging hard at the rope that held it to
the ground, for the air within it was hot, and this made it so much
lighter in weight than the air without that it pulled hard to rise into
the sky.

"Come, Dorothy!" cried the Wizard.  "Hurry up, or the balloon will fly
away."

"I can't find Toto anywhere," replied Dorothy, who did not wish to
leave her little dog behind.  Toto had run into the crowd to bark at a
kitten, and Dorothy at last found him.  She picked him up and ran
towards the balloon.

She was within a few steps of it, and Oz was holding out his hands to
help her into the basket, when, crack! went the ropes, and the balloon
rose into the air without her.

"Come back!" she screamed.  "I want to go, too!"

"I can't come back, my dear," called Oz from the basket.  "Good-bye!"

"Good-bye!" shouted everyone, and all eyes were turned upward to where
the Wizard was riding in the basket, rising every moment farther and
farther into the sky.

And that was the last any of them ever saw of Oz, the Wonderful Wizard,
though he may have reached Omaha safely, and be there now, for all we
know.  But the people remembered him lovingly, and said to one another:

"Oz was always our friend.  When he was here he built for us this
beautiful Emerald City, and now he is gone he has left the Wise
Scarecrow to rule over us."

Still, for many days they grieved over the loss of the Wonderful
Wizard, and would not be comforted.




18.  Away to the South


Dorothy wept bitterly at the passing of her hope to get home to Kansas
again; but when she thought it all over she was glad she had not gone
up in a balloon.  And she also felt sorry at losing Oz, and so did her
companions.

The Tin Woodman came to her and said:

"Truly I should be ungrateful if I failed to mourn for the man who gave
me my lovely heart.  I should like to cry a little because Oz is gone,
if you will kindly wipe away my tears, so that I shall not rust."

"With pleasure," she answered, and brought a towel at once.  Then the
Tin Woodman wept for several minutes, and she watched the tears
carefully and wiped them away with the towel.  When he had finished, he
thanked her kindly and oiled himself thoroughly with his jeweled
oil-can, to guard against mishap.

The Scarecrow was now the ruler of the Emerald City, and although he
was not a Wizard the people were proud of him.  "For," they said,
"there is not another city in all the world that is ruled by a stuffed
man."  And, so far as they knew, they were quite right.

The morning after the balloon had gone up with Oz, the four travelers
met in the Throne Room and talked matters over.  The Scarecrow sat in
the big throne and the others stood respectfully before him.

"We are not so unlucky," said the new ruler, "for this Palace and the
Emerald City belong to us, and we can do just as we please.  When I
remember that a short time ago I was up on a pole in a farmer's
cornfield, and that now I am the ruler of this beautiful City, I am
quite satisfied with my lot."

"I also," said the Tin Woodman, "am well-pleased with my new heart;
and, really, that was the only thing I wished in all the world."

"For my part, I am content in knowing I am as brave as any beast that
ever lived, if not braver," said the Lion modestly.

"If Dorothy would only be contented to live in the Emerald City,"
continued the Scarecrow, "we might all be happy together."

"But I don't want to live here," cried Dorothy.  "I want to go to
Kansas, and live with Aunt Em and Uncle Henry."

"Well, then, what can be done?" inquired the Woodman.

The Scarecrow decided to think, and he thought so hard that the pins
and needles began to stick out of his brains.  Finally he said:

"Why not call the Winged Monkeys, and ask them to carry you over the
desert?"

"I never thought of that!" said Dorothy joyfully.  "It's just the
thing.  I'll go at once for the Golden Cap."

When she brought it into the Throne Room she spoke the magic words, and
soon the band of Winged Monkeys flew in through the open window and
stood beside her.

"This is the second time you have called us," said the Monkey King,
bowing before the little girl.  "What do you wish?"

"I want you to fly with me to Kansas," said Dorothy.

But the Monkey King shook his head.

"That cannot be done," he said.  "We belong to this country alone, and
cannot leave it.  There has never been a Winged Monkey in Kansas yet,
and I suppose there never will be, for they don't belong there.  We
shall be glad to serve you in any way in our power, but we cannot cross
the desert.  Good-bye."

And with another bow, the Monkey King spread his wings and flew away
through the window, followed by all his band.

Dorothy was ready to cry with disappointment.  "I have wasted the charm
of the Golden Cap to no purpose," she said, "for the Winged Monkeys
cannot help me."

"It is certainly too bad!" said the tender-hearted Woodman.

The Scarecrow was thinking again, and his head bulged out so horribly
that Dorothy feared it would burst.

"Let us call in the soldier with the green whiskers," he said, "and ask
his advice."

So the soldier was summoned and entered the Throne Room timidly, for
while Oz was alive he never was allowed to come farther than the door.

"This little girl," said the Scarecrow to the soldier, "wishes to cross
the desert.  How can she do so?"

"I cannot tell," answered the soldier, "for nobody has ever crossed the
desert, unless it is Oz himself."

"Is there no one who can help me?" asked Dorothy earnestly.

"Glinda might," he suggested.

"Who is Glinda?" inquired the Scarecrow.

"The Witch of the South.  She is the most powerful of all the Witches,
and rules over the Quadlings.  Besides, her castle stands on the edge
of the desert, so she may know a way to cross it."

"Glinda is a Good Witch, isn't she?" asked the child.

"The Quadlings think she is good," said the soldier, "and she is kind
to everyone.  I have heard that Glinda is a beautiful woman, who knows
how to keep young in spite of the many years she has lived."

"How can I get to her castle?" asked Dorothy.

"The road is straight to the South," he answered, "but it is said to be
full of dangers to travelers.  There are wild beasts in the woods, and
a race of queer men who do not like strangers to cross their country.
For this reason none of the Quadlings ever come to the Emerald City."

The soldier then left them and the Scarecrow said:

"It seems, in spite of dangers, that the best thing Dorothy can do is
to travel to the Land of the South and ask Glinda to help her.  For, of
course, if Dorothy stays here she will never get back to Kansas."

"You must have been thinking again," remarked the Tin Woodman.

"I have," said the Scarecrow.

"I shall go with Dorothy," declared the Lion, "for I am tired of your
city and long for the woods and the country again.  I am really a wild
beast, you know.  Besides, Dorothy will need someone to protect her."

"That is true," agreed the Woodman.  "My axe may be of service to her;
so I also will go with her to the Land of the South."

"When shall we start?" asked the Scarecrow.

"Are you going?" they asked, in surprise.

"Certainly.  If it wasn't for Dorothy I should never have had brains.
She lifted me from the pole in the cornfield and brought me to the
Emerald City.  So my good luck is all due to her, and I shall never
leave her until she starts back to Kansas for good and all."

"Thank you," said Dorothy gratefully.  "You are all very kind to me.
But I should like to start as soon as possible."

"We shall go tomorrow morning," returned the Scarecrow.  "So now let us
all get ready, for it will be a long journey."




19.  Attacked by the Fighting Trees


The next morning Dorothy kissed the pretty green girl good-bye, and
they all shook hands with the soldier with the green whiskers, who had
walked with them as far as the gate.  When the Guardian of the Gate saw
them again he wondered greatly that they could leave the beautiful City
to get into new trouble.  But he at once unlocked their spectacles,
which he put back into the green box, and gave them many good wishes to
carry with them.

"You are now our ruler," he said to the Scarecrow; "so you must come
back to us as soon as possible."

"I certainly shall if I am able," the Scarecrow replied; "but I must
help Dorothy to get home, first."

As Dorothy bade the good-natured Guardian a last farewell she said:

"I have been very kindly treated in your lovely City, and everyone has
been good to me.  I cannot tell you how grateful I am."

"Don't try, my dear," he answered.  "We should like to keep you with
us, but if it is your wish to return to Kansas, I hope you will find a
way."  He then opened the gate of the outer wall, and they walked forth
and started upon their journey.

The sun shone brightly as our friends turned their faces toward the
Land of the South.  They were all in the best of spirits, and laughed
and chatted together.  Dorothy was once more filled with the hope of
getting home, and the Scarecrow and the Tin Woodman were glad to be of
use to her.  As for the Lion, he sniffed the fresh air with delight and
whisked his tail from side to side in pure joy at being in the country
again, while Toto ran around them and chased the moths and butterflies,
barking merrily all the time.

"City life does not agree with me at all," remarked the Lion, as they
walked along at a brisk pace.  "I have lost much flesh since I lived
there, and now I am anxious for a chance to show the other beasts how
courageous I have grown."

They now turned and took a last look at the Emerald City.  All they
could see was a mass of towers and steeples behind the green walls, and
high up above everything the spires and dome of the Palace of Oz.

"Oz was not such a bad Wizard, after all," said the Tin Woodman, as he
felt his heart rattling around in his breast.

"He knew how to give me brains, and very good brains, too," said the
Scarecrow.

"If Oz had taken a dose of the same courage he gave me," added the
Lion, "he would have been a brave man."

Dorothy said nothing.  Oz had not kept the promise he made her, but he
had done his best, so she forgave him.  As he said, he was a good man,
even if he was a bad Wizard.

The first day's journey was through the green fields and bright flowers
that stretched about the Emerald City on every side.  They slept that
night on the grass, with nothing but the stars over them; and they
rested very well indeed.

In the morning they traveled on until they came to a thick wood.  There
was no way of going around it, for it seemed to extend to the right and
left as far as they could see; and, besides, they did not dare change
the direction of their journey for fear of getting lost.  So they
looked for the place where it would be easiest to get into the forest.

The Scarecrow, who was in the lead, finally discovered a big tree with
such wide-spreading branches that there was room for the party to pass
underneath.  So he walked forward to the tree, but just as he came
under the first branches they bent down and twined around him, and the
next minute he was raised from the ground and flung headlong among his
fellow travelers.

This did not hurt the Scarecrow, but it surprised him, and he looked
rather dizzy when Dorothy picked him up.

"Here is another space between the trees," called the Lion.

"Let me try it first," said the Scarecrow, "for it doesn't hurt me to
get thrown about."  He walked up to another tree, as he spoke, but its
branches immediately seized him and tossed him back again.

"This is strange," exclaimed Dorothy.  "What shall we do?"

"The trees seem to have made up their minds to fight us, and stop our
journey," remarked the Lion.

"I believe I will try it myself," said the Woodman, and shouldering his
axe, he marched up to the first tree that had handled the Scarecrow so
roughly.  When a big branch bent down to seize him the Woodman chopped
at it so fiercely that he cut it in two.  At once the tree began
shaking all its branches as if in pain, and the Tin Woodman passed
safely under it.

"Come on!" he shouted to the others.  "Be quick!"  They all ran forward
and passed under the tree without injury, except Toto, who was caught
by a small branch and shaken until he howled.  But the Woodman promptly
chopped off the branch and set the little dog free.

The other trees of the forest did nothing to keep them back, so they
made up their minds that only the first row of trees could bend down
their branches, and that probably these were the policemen of the
forest, and given this wonderful power in order to keep strangers out
of it.

The four travelers walked with ease through the trees until they came
to the farther edge of the wood.  Then, to their surprise, they found
before them a high wall which seemed to be made of white china.  It was
smooth, like the surface of a dish, and higher than their heads.

"What shall we do now?" asked Dorothy.

"I will make a ladder," said the Tin Woodman, "for we certainly must
climb over the wall."




20.  The Dainty China Country


While the Woodman was making a ladder from wood which he found in the
forest Dorothy lay down and slept, for she was tired by the long walk.
The Lion also curled himself up to sleep and Toto lay beside him.

The Scarecrow watched the Woodman while he worked, and said to him:

"I cannot think why this wall is here, nor what it is made of."

"Rest your brains and do not worry about the wall," replied the
Woodman.  "When we have climbed over it, we shall know what is on the
other side."

After a time the ladder was finished.  It looked clumsy, but the Tin
Woodman was sure it was strong and would answer their purpose.  The
Scarecrow waked Dorothy and the Lion and Toto, and told them that the
ladder was ready.  The Scarecrow climbed up the ladder first, but he
was so awkward that Dorothy had to follow close behind and keep him
from falling off.  When he got his head over the top of the wall the
Scarecrow said, "Oh, my!"

"Go on," exclaimed Dorothy.

So the Scarecrow climbed farther up and sat down on the top of the
wall, and Dorothy put her head over and cried, "Oh, my!" just as the
Scarecrow had done.

Then Toto came up, and immediately began to bark, but Dorothy made him
be still.

The Lion climbed the ladder next, and the Tin Woodman came last; but
both of them cried, "Oh, my!" as soon as they looked over the wall.
When they were all sitting in a row on the top of the wall, they looked
down and saw a strange sight.

Before them was a great stretch of country having a floor as smooth and
shining and white as the bottom of a big platter.  Scattered around
were many houses made entirely of china and painted in the brightest
colors.  These houses were quite small, the biggest of them reaching
only as high as Dorothy's waist.  There were also pretty little barns,
with china fences around them; and many cows and sheep and horses and
pigs and chickens, all made of china, were standing about in groups.

But the strangest of all were the people who lived in this queer
country.  There were milkmaids and shepherdesses, with brightly colored
bodices and golden spots all over their gowns; and princesses with most
gorgeous frocks of silver and gold and purple; and shepherds dressed in
knee breeches with pink and yellow and blue stripes down them, and
golden buckles on their shoes; and princes with jeweled crowns upon
their heads, wearing ermine robes and satin doublets; and funny clowns
in ruffled gowns, with round red spots upon their cheeks and tall,
pointed caps.  And, strangest of all, these people were all made of
china, even to their clothes, and were so small that the tallest of
them was no higher than Dorothy's knee.

No one did so much as look at the travelers at first, except one little
purple china dog with an extra-large head, which came to the wall and
barked at them in a tiny voice, afterwards running away again.

"How shall we get down?" asked Dorothy.

They found the ladder so heavy they could not pull it up, so the
Scarecrow fell off the wall and the others jumped down upon him so that
the hard floor would not hurt their feet.  Of course they took pains
not to light on his head and get the pins in their feet.  When all were
safely down they picked up the Scarecrow, whose body was quite
flattened out, and patted his straw into shape again.

"We must cross this strange place in order to get to the other side,"
said Dorothy, "for it would be unwise for us to go any other way except
due South."

They began walking through the country of the china people, and the
first thing they came to was a china milkmaid milking a china cow.  As
they drew near, the cow suddenly gave a kick and kicked over the stool,
the pail, and even the milkmaid herself, and all fell on the china
ground with a great clatter.

Dorothy was shocked to see that the cow had broken her leg off, and
that the pail was lying in several small pieces, while the poor
milkmaid had a nick in her left elbow.

"There!" cried the milkmaid angrily.  "See what you have done!  My cow
has broken her leg, and I must take her to the mender's shop and have
it glued on again.  What do you mean by coming here and frightening my
cow?"

"I'm very sorry," returned Dorothy.  "Please forgive us."

But the pretty milkmaid was much too vexed to make any answer.  She
picked up the leg sulkily and led her cow away, the poor animal limping
on three legs.  As she left them the milkmaid cast many reproachful
glances over her shoulder at the clumsy strangers, holding her nicked
elbow close to her side.

Dorothy was quite grieved at this mishap.

"We must be very careful here," said the kind-hearted Woodman, "or we
may hurt these pretty little people so they will never get over it."

A little farther on Dorothy met a most beautifully dressed young
Princess, who stopped short as she saw the strangers and started to run
away.

Dorothy wanted to see more of the Princess, so she ran after her.  But
the china girl cried out:

"Don't chase me!  Don't chase me!"

She had such a frightened little voice that Dorothy stopped and said,
"Why not?"

"Because," answered the Princess, also stopping, a safe distance away,
"if I run I may fall down and break myself."

"But could you not be mended?" asked the girl.

"Oh, yes; but one is never so pretty after being mended, you know,"
replied the Princess.

"I suppose not," said Dorothy.

"Now there is Mr. Joker, one of our clowns," continued the china lady,
"who is always trying to stand upon his head.  He has broken himself so
often that he is mended in a hundred places, and doesn't look at all
pretty.  Here he comes now, so you can see for yourself."

Indeed, a jolly little clown came walking toward them, and Dorothy
could see that in spite of his pretty clothes of red and yellow and
green he was completely covered with cracks, running every which way
and showing plainly that he had been mended in many places.

The Clown put his hands in his pockets, and after puffing out his
cheeks and nodding his head at them saucily, he said:

  "My lady fair,
     Why do you stare
   At poor old Mr. Joker?
     You're quite as stiff
   And prim as if
     You'd eaten up a poker!"


"Be quiet, sir!" said the Princess.  "Can't you see these are
strangers, and should be treated with respect?"

"Well, that's respect, I expect," declared the Clown, and immediately
stood upon his head.

"Don't mind Mr. Joker," said the Princess to Dorothy.  "He is
considerably cracked in his head, and that makes him foolish."

"Oh, I don't mind him a bit," said Dorothy.  "But you are so
beautiful," she continued, "that I am sure I could love you dearly.
Won't you let me carry you back to Kansas, and stand you on Aunt Em's
mantel?  I could carry you in my basket."

"That would make me very unhappy," answered the china Princess.  "You
see, here in our country we live contentedly, and can talk and move
around as we please.  But whenever any of us are taken away our joints
at once stiffen, and we can only stand straight and look pretty.  Of
course that is all that is expected of us when we are on mantels and
cabinets and drawing-room tables, but our lives are much pleasanter
here in our own country."

"I would not make you unhappy for all the world!" exclaimed Dorothy.
"So I'll just say good-bye."

"Good-bye," replied the Princess.

They walked carefully through the china country.  The little animals
and all the people scampered out of their way, fearing the strangers
would break them, and after an hour or so the travelers reached the
other side of the country and came to another china wall.

It was not so high as the first, however, and by standing upon the
Lion's back they all managed to scramble to the top.  Then the Lion
gathered his legs under him and jumped on the wall; but just as he
jumped, he upset a china church with his tail and smashed it all to
pieces.

"That was too bad," said Dorothy, "but really I think we were lucky in
not doing these little people more harm than breaking a cow's leg and a
church.  They are all so brittle!"

"They are, indeed," said the Scarecrow, "and I am thankful I am made of
straw and cannot be easily damaged.  There are worse things in the
world than being a Scarecrow."




21.  The Lion Becomes the King of Beasts


After climbing down from the china wall the travelers found themselves
in a disagreeable country, full of bogs and marshes and covered with
tall, rank grass.  It was difficult to walk without falling into muddy
holes, for the grass was so thick that it hid them from sight.
However, by carefully picking their way, they got safely along until
they reached solid ground.  But here the country seemed wilder than
ever, and after a long and tiresome walk through the underbrush they
entered another forest, where the trees were bigger and older than any
they had ever seen.

"This forest is perfectly delightful," declared the Lion, looking
around him with joy.  "Never have I seen a more beautiful place."

"It seems gloomy," said the Scarecrow.

"Not a bit of it," answered the Lion.  "I should like to live here all
my life.  See how soft the dried leaves are under your feet and how
rich and green the moss is that clings to these old trees.  Surely no
wild beast could wish a pleasanter home."

"Perhaps there are wild beasts in the forest now," said Dorothy.

"I suppose there are," returned the Lion, "but I do not see any of them
about."

They walked through the forest until it became too dark to go any
farther.  Dorothy and Toto and the Lion lay down to sleep, while the
Woodman and the Scarecrow kept watch over them as usual.

When morning came, they started again.  Before they had gone far they
heard a low rumble, as of the growling of many wild animals.  Toto
whimpered a little, but none of the others was frightened, and they
kept along the well-trodden path until they came to an opening in the
wood, in which were gathered hundreds of beasts of every variety.
There were tigers and elephants and bears and wolves and foxes and all
the others in the natural history, and for a moment Dorothy was afraid.
But the Lion explained that the animals were holding a meeting, and he
judged by their snarling and growling that they were in great trouble.

As he spoke several of the beasts caught sight of him, and at once the
great assemblage hushed as if by magic.  The biggest of the tigers came
up to the Lion and bowed, saying:

"Welcome, O King of Beasts!  You have come in good time to fight our
enemy and bring peace to all the animals of the forest once more."

"What is your trouble?" asked the Lion quietly.

"We are all threatened," answered the tiger, "by a fierce enemy which
has lately come into this forest.  It is a most tremendous monster,
like a great spider, with a body as big as an elephant and legs as long
as a tree trunk.  It has eight of these long legs, and as the monster
crawls through the forest he seizes an animal with a leg and drags it
to his mouth, where he eats it as a spider does a fly.  Not one of us
is safe while this fierce creature is alive, and we had called a
meeting to decide how to take care of ourselves when you came among us."

The Lion thought for a moment.

"Are there any other lions in this forest?" he asked.

"No; there were some, but the monster has eaten them all.  And,
besides, they were none of them nearly so large and brave as you."

"If I put an end to your enemy, will you bow down to me and obey me as
King of the Forest?" inquired the Lion.

"We will do that gladly," returned the tiger; and all the other beasts
roared with a mighty roar: "We will!"

"Where is this great spider of yours now?" asked the Lion.

"Yonder, among the oak trees," said the tiger, pointing with his
forefoot.

"Take good care of these friends of mine," said the Lion, "and I will
go at once to fight the monster."

He bade his comrades good-bye and marched proudly away to do battle
with the enemy.

The great spider was lying asleep when the Lion found him, and it
looked so ugly that its foe turned up his nose in disgust.  Its legs
were quite as long as the tiger had said, and its body covered with
coarse black hair.  It had a great mouth, with a row of sharp teeth a
foot long; but its head was joined to the pudgy body by a neck as
slender as a wasp's waist.  This gave the Lion a hint of the best way
to attack the creature, and as he knew it was easier to fight it asleep
than awake, he gave a great spring and landed directly upon the
monster's back.  Then, with one blow of his heavy paw, all armed with
sharp claws, he knocked the spider's head from its body.  Jumping down,
he watched it until the long legs stopped wiggling, when he knew it was
quite dead.

The Lion went back to the opening where the beasts of the forest were
waiting for him and said proudly:

"You need fear your enemy no longer."

Then the beasts bowed down to the Lion as their King, and he promised
to come back and rule over them as soon as Dorothy was safely on her
way to Kansas.




22.  The Country of the Quadlings


The four travelers passed through the rest of the forest in safety, and
when they came out from its gloom saw before them a steep hill, covered
from top to bottom with great pieces of rock.

"That will be a hard climb," said the Scarecrow, "but we must get over
the hill, nevertheless."

So he led the way and the others followed.  They had nearly reached the
first rock when they heard a rough voice cry out, "Keep back!"

"Who are you?" asked the Scarecrow.

Then a head showed itself over the rock and the same voice said, "This
hill belongs to us, and we don't allow anyone to cross it."

"But we must cross it," said the Scarecrow.  "We're going to the
country of the Quadlings."

"But you shall not!" replied the voice, and there stepped from behind
the rock the strangest man the travelers had ever seen.

He was quite short and stout and had a big head, which was flat at the
top and supported by a thick neck full of wrinkles.  But he had no arms
at all, and, seeing this, the Scarecrow did not fear that so helpless a
creature could prevent them from climbing the hill.  So he said, "I'm
sorry not to do as you wish, but we must pass over your hill whether
you like it or not," and he walked boldly forward.

As quick as lightning the man's head shot forward and his neck
stretched out until the top of the head, where it was flat, struck the
Scarecrow in the middle and sent him tumbling, over and over, down the
hill.  Almost as quickly as it came the head went back to the body, and
the man laughed harshly as he said, "It isn't as easy as you think!"

A chorus of boisterous laughter came from the other rocks, and Dorothy
saw hundreds of the armless Hammer-Heads upon the hillside, one behind
every rock.

The Lion became quite angry at the laughter caused by the Scarecrow's
mishap, and giving a loud roar that echoed like thunder, he dashed up
the hill.

Again a head shot swiftly out, and the great Lion went rolling down the
hill as if he had been struck by a cannon ball.

Dorothy ran down and helped the Scarecrow to his feet, and the Lion
came up to her, feeling rather bruised and sore, and said, "It is
useless to fight people with shooting heads; no one can withstand them."

"What can we do, then?" she asked.

"Call the Winged Monkeys," suggested the Tin Woodman.  "You have still
the right to command them once more."

"Very well," she answered, and putting on the Golden Cap she uttered
the magic words.  The Monkeys were as prompt as ever, and in a few
moments the entire band stood before her.

"What are your commands?" inquired the King of the Monkeys, bowing low.

"Carry us over the hill to the country of the Quadlings," answered the
girl.

"It shall be done," said the King, and at once the Winged Monkeys
caught the four travelers and Toto up in their arms and flew away with
them.  As they passed over the hill the Hammer-Heads yelled with
vexation, and shot their heads high in the air, but they could not
reach the Winged Monkeys, which carried Dorothy and her comrades safely
over the hill and set them down in the beautiful country of the
Quadlings.

"This is the last time you can summon us," said the leader to Dorothy;
"so good-bye and good luck to you."

"Good-bye, and thank you very much," returned the girl; and the Monkeys
rose into the air and were out of sight in a twinkling.

The country of the Quadlings seemed rich and happy.  There was field
upon field of ripening grain, with well-paved roads running between,
and pretty rippling brooks with strong bridges across them.  The fences
and houses and bridges were all painted bright red, just as they had
been painted yellow in the country of the Winkies and blue in the
country of the Munchkins.  The Quadlings themselves, who were short and
fat and looked chubby and good-natured, were dressed all in red, which
showed bright against the green grass and the yellowing grain.

The Monkeys had set them down near a farmhouse, and the four travelers
walked up to it and knocked at the door.  It was opened by the farmer's
wife, and when Dorothy asked for something to eat the woman gave them
all a good dinner, with three kinds of cake and four kinds of cookies,
and a bowl of milk for Toto.

"How far is it to the Castle of Glinda?" asked the child.

"It is not a great way," answered the farmer's wife.  "Take the road to
the South and you will soon reach it."

Thanking the good woman, they started afresh and walked by the fields
and across the pretty bridges until they saw before them a very
beautiful Castle.  Before the gates were three young girls, dressed in
handsome red uniforms trimmed with gold braid; and as Dorothy
approached, one of them said to her:

"Why have you come to the South Country?"

"To see the Good Witch who rules here," she answered.  "Will you take
me to her?"

"Let me have your name, and I will ask Glinda if she will receive you."
They told who they were, and the girl soldier went into the Castle.
After a few moments she came back to say that Dorothy and the others
were to be admitted at once.




23.  Glinda The Good Witch Grants Dorothy's Wish


Before they went to see Glinda, however, they were taken to a room of
the Castle, where Dorothy washed her face and combed her hair, and the
Lion shook the dust out of his mane, and the Scarecrow patted himself
into his best shape, and the Woodman polished his tin and oiled his
joints.

When they were all quite presentable they followed the soldier girl
into a big room where the Witch Glinda sat upon a throne of rubies.

She was both beautiful and young to their eyes.  Her hair was a rich
red in color and fell in flowing ringlets over her shoulders.  Her
dress was pure white but her eyes were blue, and they looked kindly
upon the little girl.

"What can I do for you, my child?" she asked.

Dorothy told the Witch all her story: how the cyclone had brought her
to the Land of Oz, how she had found her companions, and of the
wonderful adventures they had met with.

"My greatest wish now," she added, "is to get back to Kansas, for Aunt
Em will surely think something dreadful has happened to me, and that
will make her put on mourning; and unless the crops are better this
year than they were last, I am sure Uncle Henry cannot afford it."

Glinda leaned forward and kissed the sweet, upturned face of the loving
little girl.

"Bless your dear heart," she said, "I am sure I can tell you of a way
to get back to Kansas."  Then she added, "But, if I do, you must give
me the Golden Cap."

"Willingly!" exclaimed Dorothy; "indeed, it is of no use to me now, and
when you have it you can command the Winged Monkeys three times."

"And I think I shall need their service just those three times,"
answered Glinda, smiling.

Dorothy then gave her the Golden Cap, and the Witch said to the
Scarecrow, "What will you do when Dorothy has left us?"

"I will return to the Emerald City," he replied, "for Oz has made me
its ruler and the people like me.  The only thing that worries me is
how to cross the hill of the Hammer-Heads."

"By means of the Golden Cap I shall command the Winged Monkeys to carry
you to the gates of the Emerald City," said Glinda, "for it would be a
shame to deprive the people of so wonderful a ruler."

"Am I really wonderful?" asked the Scarecrow.

"You are unusual," replied Glinda.

Turning to the Tin Woodman, she asked, "What will become of you when
Dorothy leaves this country?"

He leaned on his axe and thought a moment.  Then he said, "The Winkies
were very kind to me, and wanted me to rule over them after the Wicked
Witch died.  I am fond of the Winkies, and if I could get back again to
the Country of the West, I should like nothing better than to rule over
them forever."

"My second command to the Winged Monkeys," said Glinda "will be that
they carry you safely to the land of the Winkies.  Your brain may not
be so large to look at as those of the Scarecrow, but you are really
brighter than he is--when you are well polished--and I am sure you will
rule the Winkies wisely and well."

Then the Witch looked at the big, shaggy Lion and asked, "When Dorothy
has returned to her own home, what will become of you?"

"Over the hill of the Hammer-Heads," he answered, "lies a grand old
forest, and all the beasts that live there have made me their King.  If
I could only get back to this forest, I would pass my life very happily
there."

"My third command to the Winged Monkeys," said Glinda, "shall be to
carry you to your forest.  Then, having used up the powers of the
Golden Cap, I shall give it to the King of the Monkeys, that he and his
band may thereafter be free for evermore."

The Scarecrow and the Tin Woodman and the Lion now thanked the Good
Witch earnestly for her kindness; and Dorothy exclaimed:

"You are certainly as good as you are beautiful!  But you have not yet
told me how to get back to Kansas."

"Your Silver Shoes will carry you over the desert," replied Glinda.
"If you had known their power you could have gone back to your Aunt Em
the very first day you came to this country."

"But then I should not have had my wonderful brains!" cried the
Scarecrow.  "I might have passed my whole life in the farmer's
cornfield."

"And I should not have had my lovely heart," said the Tin Woodman.  "I
might have stood and rusted in the forest till the end of the world."

"And I should have lived a coward forever," declared the Lion, "and no
beast in all the forest would have had a good word to say to me."

"This is all true," said Dorothy, "and I am glad I was of use to these
good friends.  But now that each of them has had what he most desired,
and each is happy in having a kingdom to rule besides, I think I should
like to go back to Kansas."

"The Silver Shoes," said the Good Witch, "have wonderful powers.  And
one of the most curious things about them is that they can carry you to
any place in the world in three steps, and each step will be made in
the wink of an eye.  All you have to do is to knock the heels together
three times and command the shoes to carry you wherever you wish to go."

"If that is so," said the child joyfully, "I will ask them to carry me
back to Kansas at once."

She threw her arms around the Lion's neck and kissed him, patting his
big head tenderly.  Then she kissed the Tin Woodman, who was weeping in
a way most dangerous to his joints.  But she hugged the soft, stuffed
body of the Scarecrow in her arms instead of kissing his painted face,
and found she was crying herself at this sorrowful parting from her
loving comrades.

Glinda the Good stepped down from her ruby throne to give the little
girl a good-bye kiss, and Dorothy thanked her for all the kindness she
had shown to her friends and herself.

Dorothy now took Toto up solemnly in her arms, and having said one last
good-bye she clapped the heels of her shoes together three times,
saying:

"Take me home to Aunt Em!"

Instantly she was whirling through the air, so swiftly that all she
could see or feel was the wind whistling past her ears.

The Silver Shoes took but three steps, and then she stopped so suddenly
that she rolled over upon the grass several times before she knew where
she was.

At length, however, she sat up and looked about her.

"Good gracious!" she cried.

For she was sitting on the broad Kansas prairie, and just before her
was the new farmhouse Uncle Henry built after the cyclone had carried
away the old one.  Uncle Henry was milking the cows in the barnyard,
and Toto had jumped out of her arms and was running toward the barn,
barking furiously.

Dorothy stood up and found she was in her stocking-feet.  For the
Silver Shoes had fallen off in her flight through the air, and were
lost forever in the desert.




24.  Home Again


Aunt Em had just come out of the house to water the cabbages when she
looked up and saw Dorothy running toward her.

"My darling child!" she cried, folding the little girl in her arms and
covering her face with kisses.  "Where in the world did you come from?"

"From the Land of Oz," said Dorothy gravely.  "And here is Toto, too.
And oh, Aunt Em!  I'm so glad to be at home again!"




